>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA
ANSWERED QUESTIONS FROM
REPORTERS TODAY ON TOPICS FROM
SYRIA AND THE BOSTON BOMBINGS TO
THE BUDGET AND HIS OWN POLITICAL
CLOUT WITH CONGRESS.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ON THE NEWSHOUR TONIGHT, WE
EXAMINE THE PRESIDENT'S RENEWED
PLEDGE TO CLOSE THE GUANTANAMO
DETENTION FACILITY ONCE AND FOR
ALL.
>> Woodruff: PLUS, WE LOOK AT
THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE
WHITE HOUSE AND CONGRESS, AND
WHAT THAT MEANS FOR SPENDING
CUTS, IMMIGRATION, AND MORE.
>> Ifill: THEN, WE UPDATE THE
INVESTIGATION INTO THE BOSTON
BOMBINGS WITH THE LATEST
INFORMATION ON WHETHER THE TWO
SUSPECTS HAD HELP.
>> Woodruff: BETTY ANN BOWSER
REPORTS ON THE PERILS OF
PRESCRIPTION DRUG ABUSE AND THE
CHALLENGES OF COMBATING IT.
>> THEY'RE NOT GETTING IT
FROM DRUG DEALER, THEY'RE TO
THE GETTING OFF THE
INTERNET.
THEY'RE NOT PURCHASING IT
FROM DOWN THE STREET.
THEY'RE GETTING FROM THEIR
HOMES.
>> Ifill: AND JEFFREY BROWN
EXPLORES MOVES BY FIVE STATES TO
RESTRICT ACCESS TO ABORTION
SERVICES.
>> MOST AMERICANS HAVE A
COMMON SENSE APPROACH TO
ABORTION WHERE THEY WANT
PARENTAL CONSENT-- CONSENT,
INFORMED CONSENT.
AMERICANS BELIEVE THEY CAN
MAKE THESE PERSONAL
DECISIONS.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: PRESIDENT OBAMA MARKED
THE FIRST 100 DAYS OF HIS SECOND
TERM TODAY, USING A NEWS
CONFERENCE TO DEMAND ACTION ON
HIS AGENDA, FROM GUANTANAMO TO
GUNS.
NEWSHOUR CORRESPONDENT KWAME
HOLMAN BEGINS OUR COVERAGE.
>> DO YOU STILL HAVE THE
JUICE TO GET THE REST OF
YOUR AGENDA THROUGH THIS
CONGRESS?
>> IF YOU PUT IT THAT WAY,
JONATHAN, MAYBE I SHOULD
JUST PACK UP AND GO HOME.
GOLLY.
>> Reporter: PRESIDENT OBAMA
JOKED AND JABBED IN THE
WHITE HOUSE BRIEFING ROOM AS
HE PRESSED THE POINT THAT
HE'S NO LAME DUCK AND THAT
HE'LL KEEP PUSHING HIS
PRIORITY.
>> WE UNDERSTAND THAT WE'RE
IN A DIVIDED GOVERNMENT
RIGHT NOW.
REPUBLICANS CONTROL THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
IN THE SENATE THIS HABIT OF
REQUIRING 60 VOTES FOR EVEN
THE MOST MODEST PIECE OF
LEGISLATION HAS GUMMED UP
THE WORKS THERE.
DESPITE THAT, I'M ACTUALLY
CONFIDENT THAT THERE ARE A
RANGE OF THINGS WE'LL BE
ABLE TO GET DONE.
>> Reporter: FOR INSTANCE HE
SAID HE BELIEVES CONGRESS
WILL APPROVE SWEEPING
IMMIGRATION REFORM.
AND HE INSISTED HE HASN'T
GIVEN UP ON CLOSING THE
PRISON AT GUANTANAMO, CUBA,
AS HE VOWED TO DO IN HIS
FIRST PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN.
>> I THINK IT IS CRITICAL
FOR US TO UNDERSTAND THAT
GUANTANAMO IS NOT NECESSARY
TO KEEP AMERICA SAFE.
IT IS EXPENSIVE.
IT IS INEFFICIENT.
IT HURTS US IN TERMS OF OUR
INTERNATIONAL STANDINGS.
IT LESSENS COOPERATION WITH
OUR ALLIES ON
COUNTERTERRORISM EFFORTS.
IT IS A RECRUITMENT TOOL FOR
EXTREMISTS.
IT NEEDS TO BE CLOSED.
>> Reporter: CONGRESS HAS
BALANCINGED AT TRANSFERRING
DETAINEES TO THE MAINLAND
U.S. BUT MORE THAN HALF OF
THE 166 CAPTIVES NOW ARE
WAGING A HUNGER STRIKE FOR
BETTER CONDITIONS AND AN END
TO YEARS OF LEGAL LIMBO.
>> I DON'T WANT THESE
INDIVIDUALS TO DIE.
OBVIOUSLY THE PENTAGON IS
TRYING TO MANAGE THE
SITUATION AS BEST AS THEY
CAN.
BUT I THINK ALL OF US SHOULD
REFLECT ON WHY EXACTLY ARE
WE DOING THIS.
WHY ARE WE DOING THIS?
I'M GOING TO GO BACK AT
THIS.
I'VE ASKED MY TEAM TO REVIEW
EVERYTHING THAT'S CURRENTLY
BEING DONE IN GUANTANAMO.
EVERYTHING THAT WE CAN DO
ADMINISTRATIVELY AND I'M
GOING TO REENGAGE WITH
CONGRESS TO TRY TO MAKE THE
CASE THAT THIS IS NOT
SOMETHING THAT IS IN THE
BEST INTERESTS OF THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE.
>> Reporter: LIKEWISE, THE
PRESIDENT SAID IT'S NOT IN
THE COUNTRY'S BEST INTEREST
TO KEEP THE ACROSS-THE-BOARD
SPENDING CUTS KNOWN AS THE
SEQUESTER.
>> IT SLOWED OUR GROWTH.
IT'S RESULTING IN PEOPLE
BEING THROWN OUT OF WORK.
AND IT'S HURTING FOLKS ALL
ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
AND THE FACT THAT CONGRESS
RESPONDED TO THE SHORT-TERM
PROBLEM OF FLIGHT DELAYS BY
GIVING US THE OPTION OF
SHIPPING MONIES THAT'S
DESIGNED TO REPAIR AND
IMPROVE AIRPORTS OVER THE
LONG-TERM TO FIX THE
SHORT-TERM PROBLEM, WELL
THAT'S NOT A SOLUTION.
>> Reporter: AND THAT WAS A
RECURRING THEME, MR. OBAMA
ARGUING THAT THE FAILURE TO
ADDRESS GUANTANAMO OR BUDGET
PROBLEMS OR GUN VIOLENCE
LIES SQUARELY ON CONGRESS'S
DOORSTEP AS HE TOLD ABC
NEW'S JONATHAN CARL.
>> JONATHAN, YOU SEEM TO
SUGGEST THAT SOMEHOW THESE
FOLKS OVER THERE HAVE NO
RESPONSIBILITIES AND THAT MY
JOB IS TO SOMEHOW GET THEM
TO BEHAVE.
THAT'S THEIR JOB.
>> Reporter: BY THE SAME
TOKEN THE PRESIDENT ACCUSED
REPUBLICANS IN CONGRESS AND
STATE HOUSES OF OBSTRUCTING
HIS HEALTH-CARE REFORM LAW.
HE ACKNOWLEDGED SOME
GLITCHES BUT SAID THEY DON'T
AFFECT MOST PEOPLE.
>> DESPITE ALL THE HUE AND
CRY AND SKY IS FALLING
PREDICTIONS ABOUT THIS STUFF,
IF YOU HAVE ALREADY GOTTHELF
INSURANCE, THEN THAT PART OF
OBAMACARE THAT AFFECTS YOU,
IT'S PRETTY MUCH ALREADY IN
PLACE.
AND THAT'S ABOUT 85% OF THE
COUNTRY.
WHAT IS LEFT TO BE
IMPLEMENTED IS THOSE
PROVISIONS TO HELP THE 10 TO
15% OF THE AMERICAN PUBLIC
THAT IS UNLUCKY ENOUGH THAT
THEY DON'T HAVE HEALTH
INSURANCE.
>> Reporter: WHILE MUCH OF
THE 48 MINUTE WHITE HOUSE
NEWS CONFERENCE DEALT WITH
DOMESTIC POLICY AND TENSIONS
WITH CONGRESS, THE QUESTIONS
ALSO TURNED ABROAD.
THE MAIN FOCUS, THE ONGOING
CONFLICT IN SYRIA ANDIGNS S
THAT BASH AR AL-ASSAD MAY
HAVE USED CHEMICAL WEAPONS
AGAINST THE REBELS.
PRESIDENT OBAMA INDICATED
HE'S READY TO CONSIDER
MILITARY OPTIONS IF THE CASE
IS PROVED.
>> WHAT WE NOW HAVE IS
EVIDENCE THAT CHEMICAL
WEAPONS HAVE BEEN USED
INSIDE OF SYRIA.
BUT WE DON'T KNOW HOW THEY
WERE USED, WHEN THEY WERE
USED, WHO USED THEM.
WE DON'T HAVE A CHAIN OF
CUSTODY THAT ESTABLISHES
WHAT EXACTLY HAPPENED.
>> Reporter: IN SHORT, HE
SAID THE AMERICAN PEOPLE AND
THE WORLD EXPECT HIM TO MAKE
SURE HE'S GOT THE FACTS
BEFORE ACTING.
>> IF WE END UP RUSHING TO
JUDGEMENT WITHOUT HARD,
EFFECTIVE EVIDENCE, THEN WE
CAN FIND OURSELVES IN THE
POSITION WHERE WE CAN'T
MOBILIZE THE INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNITY TO SUPPORT WHAT WE
DO.
THERE MAY BEJECTS EVEN
AMONG SOME PEOPLE IN THE
REGION WHO ARE SYMPATHETIC
WITH THE OPPOSITION IF WE
TAKE ACTION SO IT'S
IMPORTANT FOR US TO DO THIS
IN A PRUDENT WAY.
>> Reporter: LATE TODAY "THE
WASHINGTON POST" REPORTED
THE PRESIDENT NOW IS
PREPARING TO SEND LETHAL
WEAPONRY TO THE SYRIAN REBELS.
THE ACCOUNT SAID A FINAL
DECISION IS LIKELY WITHIN
WEEKS.
AS FOR ANOTHER SECURITY
THREAT, THE BOSTON BOMBINGS,
THE PRESIDENT SAYS SO FAR IT
APPEARS THE DEPARTMENT OF
HOMELAND SECURITY AND THE
FBI DID THEIR JOBS IN THE
MONTHS LEADING TO THE
ATTACKS.
>> THE FBI INVESTIGATED THAT
OLDER BROTHER.
IT'S NOT AS IF THE FBI DID
NOTHING.
THEY NOT ONLY INVESTIGATED
THE OLDER BROTHER, THEY
INTERVIEWED THE OLDER
BROTHER.
THEY CONCLUDED THAT THERE
WERE NO SIGNS THAT HE WAS
ENGAGING IN EXTREMIST
ACTIVITY.
SO THAT MUCH WE KNOW.
>> Reporter: STILL THE
PRESIDENT PROMISED A
THOROUGH REVIEW OF WHETHER
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE WAS
MISSED.
>> Woodruff: THE PRESIDENT
MADE
>> Ifill: THE PRESIDENT MADE ONE
STRAIGHTFORWARD PLEDGE TODAY, TO
KEEP THE PROMISE HE MADE BEFORE
HE WAS ELECTED TO SHUT DOWN THE
DETENTION CENTER AT GUANTANAMO
BAY.
BUT IS THAT EVEN POSSIBLE?
CHARLIE SAVAGE HAS BEEN COVERING
THE ISSUE FOR THE "NEW YORK
TIMES."
PRESIDENT SAID THAT KEEPING
GUANTANAMO OPEN IS NOT
NECESSARY  KEETOP THE
COUNTRY SAFE.
WHAT DOES HE BASE THAT ON?
>> WELL, PRESIDENT OBAMA'S
PLAN FOR CLOSING GUANTANAMO
INVOLVES BRINGING THE
DETAINEES THERE WHO CAN'T BE
SENT HOME BECAUSE THEY'RE
DEEMED TOO DANGEROUS TO
RELEASE OR BECAUSE THEY ARE
FROM COUNTRIES WHERE
SECURITY CONDITIONS ARE POOR,
TAKING THOSE DETAINEES AND
BRINGING THEM TO ANOTHER
PRISON INSIDE THE UNITED
STATES.
HIS ORIGINAL PLAN WHICH
CONGRESS BLOCKED WAS TO USE
AN EMPTY MAXIMUM SECURITY
PRISON IN ILLINOIS TO AMP UP
ITS SECURITY FURTHER TO
SUPERMAX CONDITIONS.
AND HIS MOTION THERE IS WE
HAVE TERRORIST ALL OVER THE
COUNTRY, THE SUPERMAX
PRISONS IN PARTICULAR, AND
THAT'S FINE.
IT'S NOT LIKE THAT IS
ACTUALLY A THREAT TO
NATIONAL SECURITY.
SO WE CAN STILL DETAINEE IN
WARTIME DETENTION, IS HIS
VIEW, WITHOUT HAVING TO
NECESSARILY DO IT AT
GUANTANAMO WHERE THINGS ARE
SO MUCH MORE EXPENSIVE AND
WHERE THERE IS THIS SYMBOLIC
PUBLIC RELATIONS PROBLEM
THAT CAUSES ALL SORTS OF
FOREIGN POLICY PROBLEMS FOR
THE COUNTRY.
>> Ifill: FIRST OF ALL HOW
MANY DETAINEES ARE WE
TALKING ABOUT HERE?
>> THERE ARE CURRENTLY 166
DETAINEES REMAINING AT
GUANTANAMO.
THAT'S DOWN FROM 240 WHEN HE
TOOK OFFICE, AND ABOUT 800
TOTAL WHOM THE BUSH
ADMINISTRATION BROUGHT
THERE.
PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS NOT
BROUGHT ANYONE TO
GUANTANAMO.
>> Ifill: AND WHEN YOU
MENTION AT THE EXPENSE AND
THE PRESIDE MENTNTIONED THE
EXPENSE, WHAT ARE WE TALK
APPROXIMATING ABOUT?
>> IT'S MORE EXPENSIVE TO
BUILD ANYTHING THERE.
IT'S MORE-- BECAUSE IT IS SO
FAR AWAY, YOU HAVE TO BARGE
THINGS IN AROUND CUBA.
IT'S MORE EXPENSIVE TO
OPERATE ANYTHING THERE.
AND CURRENTLY THE FACILITIES
THERE ARE SORT OF FALLING
APART.
THE SOUTH COMM WHICH
OVERSEAS GAIN TAN
TO-- GUANTANAMO HAS A
PENDING REQUEST FOR $200
MILLION IN NEW CONSTRUCTION
TO REPLACE DETERIORATE
FACILITIES WHICH IT SAYS
NEEDS TO BE DONE RIGHT NOW.
THIS WOULD EFFECTIVELY BUILD
PERMANENT STRUCTURES TO
REPLACE WHAT HAD BEEN
TEMPORARY GUARD BARACKS AND
CAMPS AND SO FORTH SET UP
OVER TEN YEARS AGO.
>> Ifill: THE PRESIDENT ALSO
MADE ANOTHER CLAIM TODAY,
ASSERTION.
HE SAID THAT THE PRESENCE OF
GUANTANAMO MAKES IF A
RECRUITMENT TOOL FOR
EXTREMISTS.
IS THERE ANY EVIDENCE TO
BACK THAT UP?
>> WELL, CERTAINLY
INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES HAVE
OCCASIONALLY PICKED UP
PROPAGANDA OR YOU SEE
RADICAL MUSLIM CLERICS AND
SO FORTH MENTIONING
GUANTANAMO IN A LIST OF
GRIEVANCES.
I WOULD SAY IN THE CURRENT
ERA PROBABLY DRONE STRIKES
OCCUPY THE NUMBER ONE SPOT
ON THAT LIST.
BUT THERE'S ALSO THIS
CONTINUING PROBLEM INVOLVING
THE LOW LEVEL DETAINEES AT
GUANTANAMO.
NOT THE HIGH LEVEL GUYS THAT
ARE NEVER GOING TO GET OUT
LIKE KHALID SHEIKH MOHAMMED.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT HALF THE
DETAINEE POPULATION, 86 HAVE
BEEN CLEARED UNANIMOUSLY BY
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCIES
FOR MORE THAN THREE YEARS TO
BE RELEASED IF SECURITY
CONDITIONS HAVE BEEN MET.
AND THE OUTWARD FLOW OF
THOSE DETAINEES HAS DRIED UP
FOR SEVERAL YEARS.
THAT'S WHAT IS LEADING TO
THIS TURMOIL AND UNREST AT
GUANTANAMO RIGHT NOW.
AND I THINK THAT'S CURRENTLY
THE ISSUE THAT IS ATTRACTING
THE GREATEST BLOWBACK
GLOBALLY INCLUDING FROM
THE-- RECENTLY FROM THE
UNITED NATIONS HIGH
COMMISSIONER FOR HUMAN
RIGHTS.
>> Ifill: AND PART OF
BLOWBACK, PART OF THE
UPHEAVAL THERE RIGHT NOW HAS
TO DO WITH THIS HUNGER
STRIKE WHICH IS UNDER WAY.
IS THIS WHAT HAS FORCED THE
PRESIDENT TO GET TOUGH ON
THIS ISSUE AGAIN?
OR WAS THIS, IS THIS WHAT
THE ADMINISTRATION HAS BEEN
SAYING QUIETLY ALL ALONG?
>> WELL, THE
ADMINISTRATION'S STATED
POLICY HAS BEEN SINCE OBAMA
TOOK OFFICE IN 2009 THAT IT
WANTS TO CLOSE GUANTANAMO.
BUT IN THE FACE OF
CONGRESSIONAL OPPOSITION TO
ITS PLAN TO BRING THE
DETAINEES INTO THE UNITED
STATES, AND LATER SOME
RESTRICTIONS IMPOSED BY
CONGRESS ON TRANSFERRING
THEM ELSEWHERE TO COUNTRIES
WITH TROUBLED SECURITY
CONDITIONS, THAT STATED
POLICY HAS BEEN BASICALLY
STATED ONLY.
THERE HAS BEEN VERY LITTLE
EFFORT BY THE ADMINISTRATION
FOR THE PAST SEVERAL YEARS
TO ACTUALLY DO ANYTHING
ABOUT IT.
IT'S BEEN SITTING ON ITS
HANDS, ESSENTIALLY, WAITING
FOR THE POLITICAL WINDS TO
SHIFT AGAIN.
EVEN AFTER CONGRESS GRANTED
IT IN 2012 THE POWER TO
ISSUE CASE BY CASE WAIVERS
TO THOSE TRANSFER
RESTRICTIONS TO SEND PEOPLE
BACK TO PLACES LIKE YEMEN.
THE ADMINISTRATION HAS NOT
EXERCISED THAT AUTHORITY
ONCE.
AND EARLIER THIS YEAR IT
TRANSFERRED AWAY THE HIGH
LEVEL STATE DEPARTMENT
DIPLOMAT WHOSE JOB IT WAS TO
NEGOTIATE DETAINEE
TRANSFERS.
AND IT DID NOT REPLACE HIM.
AND SO IT IS AGAINST THAT
BACKDROP OF OSSIFICATION
THAT THE TURMOIL IN
GUANTANAMO WHICH FOR THE
FIRST YEARS OF HIS
PRESIDENCY HAVE BEEN QUITE
QUIET HAS RECENTLY BLOWN UP.
THE DETAINEES HAVE GROWN
DESPERATE THAT THEY ARE
NEVER GOING TO GO HOME, EVEN
THE ONES LONG SINCE
DESIGNATED FOR POTENTIAL
RELEASE.
THEY THINK THE WORLD HAS
FORGOTTEN ABOUT THEM.
AND BOTH THE MILITARY AND
LAWYERS FOR DETAINEES AGREE
THAT THAT SENSE OF GROWING
HOPELESSNESS IS THE
UNDERLYING CONDITION THAT IS
DRIVING THIS HUNGER STRIKE
AND LARGER PROTEST.
>> Ifill: SO WHY IS THE
PRESIDENT'S STATEMENT TODAY
ANY DIFFERENT FROM THE
ASSERTIONS THE
ADMINISTRATION HAS MADE
BEFORE?
IS THERE ANYTHING HE CAN NOW
DO ADMINISTRATIVELY IN THE
FACE OF CONGRESSIONAL
OPPOSITION?
>> WELL, THAT'S WHAT IS SORT
OF INTERESTING ABOUT THIS.
OF COURSE HE MADE THIS
BECAUSE SOMEONE ASKED HIM.
IT IS NOT LIKE HE WENT OUT
AND CHOSE TO SAY SOMETHING
ABOUT GUANTANAMO WHEN HE HAS
BEEN QUIET ABOUT THE TOPIC
FOR QUITE A LONG TIME.
SO HE'S SAYING, YES, IN
ADDITION TO TRYING TO GET
CONGRESS TO BUGD-- BUDGET,
HE HAS ORDERED A REVIEW OF
WHAT COULD BE DONE
ADMINISTRATIVELY AND BOTH
REPUBLICANS IN CONGRESS AND
CIVIL LIBERTARIAN GROUPS ON
THE OTHER SIDE ARE SAYING
THERE ARE THINGS HE COULD
HAVE ALREADY BEEN DOING FOR
SOME TIME.
HE COULD HAVE BEEN ISSUING
OR DIRECTING THE SECRETARY
OF DEFENSE TO ISSUE THESE
WAIVERS ON'S CASE-BY-CASE
BASIS TO GET SOME OF THE LOW
LEVEL DETAINEES WHO HAVE
BEEN JAMMED UP, OUT.
HE COULD APPOINT A HIGH
LEVEL PERSON IN THE WHITE
HOUSE WITH THE AUTHORITY TO
RESOLVE INTERAGENCY DISPUTES
THAT HAVE SLOWED DOWN
CERTAIN POLICIES LIKE THE
CREATION OF PAROLE BOARDS.
THEY MISSED A DEADLINE OVER
A YEAR HE HAD SET UP TO HAVE
PAROLE HEARINGS FOR DETAINEES
WHO ARE DEEMED TOO DANGEROUS
TO RELEASE.
IF THEY ARE STILL TOO
DANGEROUS, NOTHING HAS
HAPPENED BECAUSE OF
INTERAGENCY DISPUTE NO ONE
HAS RESOLVED THAT DISPUTE.
AND THE BAN ON TRANSFERS TO
YEMEN IS TO THE SOMETHING
CONGRESS IMPOSED, IT'S
SOMETHING THAT PRESIDENT
OBAMA HIMS YEAR
EARLIER AFTER THE ATTEMPTED
UNDERWEAR BOMBING OF THAT
DETROIT BOUND AIRLINER ON
CHRISTMAS IN 2009.
THAT'S WHERE 56 OF THE 86
DETAINEES LONG SINCE
APPROVED FOR CONGRESSIONAL
APPROVAL ARE FROM YEMEN.
AND IT IS MR. OBAMA'S OWN
SELF-IMPOSED BAN ON ANY
TRANSFERS TO THAT COUNTRY
WHICH IS PRIMARILY KEPT THEM
LOCKED UP.
>> Ifill: STILL IN A TOUGH
POSITION.
CHARLIE SAVAGE OF "THE NEW
YORK TIMES", THANK YOU SO
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AND YOU CAN
WATCH ALL OF MR. OBAMA'S
PRESS CONFERENCE ON OUR WEB
SITE.
AND STILL TO COME ON THE
NEWSHOUR, THE POLITICAL
CHALLENGES AHEAD FOR THE
PRESIDENT AND CONGRESS; AN
UPDATE ON THE INVESTIGATION INTO
THE BOSTON BOMBINGS; THE PROBLEM
OF PRESCRIPTION DRUG ABUSE; AND
A DEBATE ABOUT RECENT MOVES TO
RESTRICT ABORTIONS IN THE
STATES.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
HERE'S HARI SREENIVASAN.
WILL FOOD AND DRUG
ADMINISTRATION APPROVED OVER
ITS COUNTER SALES OF THE
MORNING AFTER BIRTH PILL FOR
GIRLS 15 AND OLD.
BEFORE NOW IT WAS ONLY ABLE
TO THOSE 17 AND OVER.
EARLER-- EARLIER THE JUDGE
ORDERED THE AGE RESTRICTIONS
BE LIFTED BUT THE FDA SAID
IT WAS IN THE WORKS BEFORE
THE JUDGE'S ORDER.
THREE NATO SERVICE MEMBERS WERE
KILLED IN A ROADSIDE BOMBING IN
SOUTHERN AFGHANISTAN TODAY.
IT CAME ON THE THIRD DAY OF THE
TALIBAN'S SPRING OFFENSIVE.
THE MILITANTS HAVE VOWED TO
TARGET FOREIGN MILITARY BASES
AND DIPLOMATIC AREAS AND TO USE
"INSIDER ATTACKS" BY AFGHAN
SOLDIERS AND POLICE TO KILL NATO
TROOPS.
NATO DID NOT IDENTIFY THE
NATIONALITIES OF THOSE KILLED
TODAY.
IN LIBYA, A CONFRONTON
ESCALATED AS MILITIAMEN
SURROUNDED THE JUSTICE MINISTRY
IN THE CAPITAL CITY, TRIPOLI.
IT'S THE THIRD DAY OF TROUBLE,
AS ARMED GROUPS TEST THE
GOVERNMENT'S POLITICAL
TRANSITION.
GUNMEN STOOD GUARD TODAY BESIDE
TRUCKS MOUNTED WITH ANTI-
AIRCRAFT GUNS.
ROADS AROUND THE JUSTICE
MINISTRY WERE SEALED OFF, THE
BUILDING WAS CLOSED, AND
VISITORS WERE TURNED AWAY.
THE MILITIAS ARE TRYING TO FORCE
OUT MEMBERS OF MOAMMAR GADHAFI'S
REGIME WHO ARE STILL IN
GOVERNMENT POSTS.
THE PARLIAMENT OF CYPRUS
NARROWLY PASSED A MULTIBILLION-
DOLLAR BAILOUT PLAN TODAY,
AVOIDING NATIONAL BANKRUPTCY.
THE GOVERNMENT STRUCK THE DEAL
WITH ITS EURO PARTNERS AND THE
INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND LAST
WEEK.
OFFICIALS HAD WARNED THAT
WITHOUT THE AGREEMENT, THE
COUNTRY FACED ECONOMIC COLLAPSE
AND POSSIBLE WITHDRAWAL FROM THE
EURO SYSTEM.
THE DEAL HAS ANGERED MANY
CYPRIOTS BY FORCING LARGE BANK
DEPOSITORS TO TAKE MAJOR LOSSES
ON THEIR SAVINGS.
THE U.S. ECONOMY IS GIVING OFF
MORE SIGNALS OF GROWTH.
CONSUMER CONFIDENCE ROSE IN
APRIL, AFTER FALLING IN MARCH.
THE CONFERENCE BOARD, A PRIVATE
RESEARCH GROUP, SAYS HIRING AND
PAY RAISES HELPED.
AND THE STANDARD & POORS/CASE-
SCHILLER INDEX SHOWED HOME
PRICES JUMPED MORE THAN 9% IN
FEBRUARY.
THAT'S THE BIGGEST INCREASE IN
NEARLY SEVEN YEARS.
ON WALL STREET TODAY, THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE GAINED
21 POINTS TO CLOSE WELL OVER
14,839.
THE NASDAQ ROSE MORE THAN 21
POINTS TO CLOSE ABOVE 3328.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO JUDY.
>> Woodruff:
COVERAGE OF THE PRESIDENT'S NEWS
CONFERENCE TODAY WITH A LOOK AT
HIS RELATIONSHIP WITH CONGRESS.
JOINING ME NOW ARE DAN BALZ,
CHIEF CORRESPONDENT WITH THE
"WASHINGTON POST."
AND GLENN THRUSH.
HE COVERS THE WHITE HOUSE FOR
POLITICO.
WELCOME.
TO YOU BOTH.
SO THE PRESIDENT SAID, WE
HEARD HIM SAY AT THE NEWS
CONFERENCE THE RUMORS OF HIS
DEMISE ARE GREATLY
EXAGGERATED WHEN JONATHAN
KARL OF ABC ASKED HIM DOES
HE STILL HAVE THE JUICE TO
GET THE REST OF HIS AGENDA
THROUGH CONGRESS.
DAN, DOES HE HAVE THE JUICE?
>> WELL, HE HAS SOME JUICE.
BUT WE'VE SEEN THROUGHOUT
HIS PRESIDENCY, PARTICULARLY
AFTER THE 2010 ELECTIONS,
HOW DIFFICULT IT IS FOR HIM
TO GET THE CONGRESS TO GO
ALONG WITH THE THINGS HE
WANTS TO DO.
AND WE THOUGHT PERHAPS AFTER
THE RE-ELECTION HE WOULD
HAVE A LITTLE BIT MORE
STRENGTH TO DO THAT.
BUT VERY QUICKLY WE FELL
BACK INTO THE SAME
DIVISIONS.
AND IT'S HARD FOR HIM TO
OVERCOME THAT.
>> Woodruff: WHY?
WHY DOESN'T HE HAVE WHAT
PEOPLE THOUGHT AFTER THE
ELECTIONS THAT PEOPLE MIGHT
HAVE.
>>IT JUST REALLY STRIKING TO
ME THE DIFFERENCE FIVE
MONTHS MAKE.
YOU KNOW, RIGHT AFTER THE
ELECTION PEOPLE AROUND THE
PRESIDENT WERE SAYING THIS
IS A PAN DATE.
THIS IS A RATIFICATION OF
EVERYTHING THAT HE WAS
TRYING TO DO.
BUT I THINK IT'S BEEN A
CONFLUENCE OF A BUNCH OF
DIFFERENT CIRCUMSTANCES.
I THINK A LOT OF THIS HAS TO
DO WITH THE PREDICATE THAT
THE PRESIDENT HIMSELF
ESTABLISHED IN THE FIRST
FOUR YEARS.
HE DOES NOT HAVE GREAT
RELATIONSHIPS ON THE HILL
WITH DEMOCRATS OR
REPUBLICANS.
AND AT THIS POINT IN TIME HE
NEEDS TO HAVE LEVERAGE UP ON
THE HILL AND HE JUST CAN'T
RELY ON RELATIONSHIPS.
>> Woodruff: SO IS IT A
MATTER, DAN, OF JUST NOT
CULT NATURE-- CULTIVATING
RELATIONSHIPS ON THE HILL?
>> WELL, THAT IS PART OF IT,
AS GLENN SAYS HE'S FEVER
BEEN A SCHMOOZER ON CAPITOL
HILL.
BUT IT'S MUCH MORE DIFFICULT
TO OPERATE ON CAPITOL HILL
TODAY THAN IT USED TO BE FOR
ANY PRESIDENT THERE ARE
SOMETIMES ANALOGIES MADE TO
LYNDON JOHNSON AND HE SHOULD
BE MORE LIKE
LINCOLN-- LYNDON JOHNSON,
YOU KNOW, BREAKING ARMS AND
LEGS AND TWISTING EVERYBODY.
THE FACT IS THAT DOESN'T
WORK THE WAY IT USED TO.
THIS IS A DIFFERENT TIME.
THE CONGRESS IS DIFFERENT.
THE COUNTRY IS SO DIVIDED,
RED AND BLUE THAT IT'S JUST
HARD FOR ANY CHIEF EXECUTIVE
TO OPERATE THAT WAY.
AND AS WE'VE SEEN FOR
CONGRESSIONAL LEADERS TO GET
THEIR WAY SOMETIMES.
>> Woodruff: GLENN, WE HEARD
THE PRESIDENT SAY TODAY, HE
SAID IT'S NOT MY JOB TO GET
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS TO
BEHAVE.
HE SAID IT'S THEIR JOB
BECAUSE THEY'RE ELECTED TO
DO WHAT IS RIGHT FOR THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE.
HE SAID AND THEY OUGHT TO BE
THINKING ABOUT FIVE, TEN, 15
YEARS FROM NOW AND NOT RIGHT
NOW.
IS HE RIGHT ABOUT THAT?
DOES HE HAVE A POINT?
>> WELL, MAYBE THE JUICE
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT NEEDS TO
BE IN THE FORM OF A CATTLE
PRODUCT.
I THINK HE IS-- HE'S
PARTIALLY RIGHT ABOUT THAT.
I THINK, YOU KNOW, TO A
CERTAIN EXTENT AS DAN SAID,
THE PRESIDENT IS FACING THIS
INCREDIBLE DIVISION.
HE HAS COME UP, HOWEVER,
WITH A FAIRLY REASONABLE
STRATEGY WHICH IS TO
APPROACH THE SENATE AND
ATTEMPT TO MAKE THESE DEALS
THROUGH THE SENATE.
I THINK ON THE IMMIGRATION
BILL IN PARTICULAR.
HE CAN ESTABLISH A CONDUIT
AND PUT MORE PRESSURE ON THE
HOUSE REPUBLICANS.
IN TERMS OF LEGACY, THAT
PARTICULAR ARGUMENT HASN'T
WORKED SO FAR.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT THAT,
DAN?
>> WELL, I THINK THAT'S
RIGHT.
I THINK IN SOME WAY WAS WE
HAVE SEEN SINCE THE ELECTION
IS A TWO-PRONG STRATEGY
WHICH IS SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT
THAN WHAT HE DID IN 2011.
I THINK THERE IS STILL AN
EFFORT WORKING THE INSIDE.
AND AS GLENN SAYS MOSTLY
THROUGH THE SENATE, HOPING
TO BREAK THROUGH WITH SOME
REPUBLICAN SENATORS WHO ARE
CERTAINLY FRUSTRATED BY THE
INABILITY OF CONGRESS TO DO
SOME THINGS.
BUT THERE IS A MORE
AGGRESSIVE OUTSIDE STRATEGY
THAT HE HAS EMPLOYED SINCE
THE ELECTION.
AND IN A SENSE YOU COULD SAY
THERE IS A LEGISLATIVE
STRATEGY OF WORKING THE
INSIDE.
AND THERE IS A POLITICAL
STRATEGY ON THE OUTSIDE
WHICH IN A SENSE IS AIMED AT,
IF WE DON'T GET THOSE THINGS
WE ARE STILL GOING TO
BENEFIT POLITICALLY, PERHAPS
IN 2014.
>> Woodruff: SO WHEN HE SAY,
I MEAN AT ONE POINT, HE SAID
I CAN'T FORCE REPUBLICANS TO
EMBRACE COMMON SENSE
SOLUTIONS.
HE SAID THEY ARE GOING TO
HAVE TO SAY WE WANT TO DO
THE RIGHT THING.
I MEAN SHOULD HE BE MORE
TALENTED IN SOME WAY IN
GETTING CONGRESS TO DO WHAT
HE WANTS?
>> I MEAN THAT ISN'T THE
ROOTS OF HIS POLITICAL
SUCCESS.
IN 2008 HE DIDN'T JUST RUN
AGAINST CONGRESS.
HE RAN AGAINST WASHINGTON.
AND HIS ENTIRE MIND-SET HAS
BEEN ABOUT, UNTIL NOW, BEEN
ABOUT CHANGING THE LARGER
POLITICAL CLIMATE SO THAT
PEOPLE WILL MOVE IN HIS
DIRECTION.
I THINK IN THE MIDDLE, IN
THE EARLY PART OF THE SUMMER
IN MAY STARTING IN MAY,
WE'RE GOING TO SEE SOME OFA
ACTION.
>> Woodruff: THIS IS THE
OUTSIDE GROUP.
>> THE OUTSIDE GROUP.
WE'RE GOING TO START SEEING
SOME ACTION.
I THINK THAT MAY HAVE A
LIMITED IMPACT.
BUT AS DAN SAID, I THINK HE
REALLY DOES NEED TO CONTINUE
TO IMPROVE THE INSIDE GAME
HERE.
>> THE CHALLENGE THAT HE'S
GOING TO FACE, THE GUNS VOTE
WHILE CERTAINLY A SETBACK IS
IN SOME WAYS NOT A SURPRISE.
NOBODY'S WANTED IT DEAL WITH
THE GUN ISSUE FOR A LONG
TIME.
HE SEES THE OPPORTUNITY
AFTER NEWTOWN.
BUT WAS UNABLE TO BE
SUCCESSFUL.
THEY ARE PUTTING SO MUCH NOW
INTO IMMIGRATION AND THEY'RE
OPTIMISTIC THAT IN THE END%m6
THEY'RE GOING TO GET
SOMETHING ON IMMIGRATION.
I THINK THAT'S STILL A BIG
QUESTION MARK PARTICULARLY
BECAUSE OF WHERE THE HOUSE
MAY OR MAY NOT BE ON THAT
ISSUE.
THE BUDGET ISSUE IS ONE IN
WHICH THEY'RE STILL IS NO
EVIDENCE THAT THERE IS
GROUNDS FOR A REAL
BREAKTHROUGH.
AND I THINK THAT'S ONE IF
YOU LOOK AT THE BIG
FRUSTRATIONS THAT HE MAY
FACE BY THE END OF THIS YEAR,
THAT COULD BE IT.
>> Woodruff: DO YOU AGREE
WITH DAN ON IMMIGRATION?
THAT PROSPECTS LOOK GOOD?
>> I THINK PROSPECTS ON
IMMIGRATION LOOK GOOD AGAIN
BUT THEN THERE IS THE
POSSIBILITY THAT THIS THING
COULD BLOW UP AGAIN.
YOU'VE GOT FOLKS IN THE
HOUSE WHO ARE SAYING THAT
THEY ARE A NO GO ON THIS.
>> Woodruff: ON IMMIGRATION.
>> ON IMMIGRATION.
PEOPLE WHO ARE CHALLENGING
MARCO LUBIO, YOU KNOW JIM
DEMINT, THE FORMER SENATOR
FROM NORTH CAROLINA NOW HEAD
OF THE ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE
IS SAYING OPPOSITION.
SO THAT MAY NOT BE A SMOOTH
PATH.
>> Woodruff: SO THAT IS NOT
A SLAM-DUNK.
AND WHAT ABOUT BUJT.
THE PRESIDENT PUT IT TODAY,
HE SAID MAYBE WE CAN FIX THE
SEQUESTER PROBLEM BY GOING
FOR A BIGGER-- A BIGGER
DEAL.
WHAT DOES THAT LOOK LIKE?
>> WELL, I THINK TO A
CERTAIN EXTENT, AND I'VE
NOTICED THIS IN THE LAST
COUPLE OF DAYS.
AND MAYBE DAN HAS AS WELL.
THERE'S A CERTAIN BITTERNESS
CREEPING INTO THE WAY THAT
THE WHITE HOUSE ARE VIEWING
THESE FIGHTS.
I THINK THE GUN BATTLE FOR
THEM WAS A REALLY DIFFICULT
EXPERIENCE.
I THINK THEY BELIEVE THAT
THE MORAL FORCE OF HAVING
THE NEWTOWN FAMILIES UP ON
THE HILL WAS GOING TO CHANGE
HEARTS AND MINDS.
I ALSO FEEL THAT THEY
THOUGHT THE SEQUESTER WAS
GOING TO GET PEOPLE IN LINE.
THAT HAS NOT HAPPENED.
AND I THINK THERE IS A SENSE
NOW, I THINK YOU KIND OF SAW
IT IN THE PRESIDENT'S
DEMEANOR AT THIS PRESS
CONFERENCE THAT THINGS ARE
GOING WRONG.
AND THEY'RE NOT EXACTLY SURE
HOW TO DEAL WITH IT.
>> Woodruff: IS THAT KIND OF
ATTITUDE, DAN, IF THAT IS
WHAT THEY ARE THINKING AND
FEELING, IS THAT HELPFUL,
HARMFUL?
>> WELL, IT'S NOT HELPFUL TO
BE OVERLY PESSIMISTIC IF YOU
ARE THE PRESIDENT.
YOU HAVE TO BELIEVE YOU'RE
GOING TO BE ABLE TO GET SOME
OF THESE THINGS DONE.
I THINK THEY FEEL THAT RIGHT
NOW THERE'S A STORY LINE
THAT HAS KIND OF DEVELOPED
BECAUSE OF THE GUNS VOTE AND
BECAUSE OF THIS CHANGE IN
THE FAA FUNDING, THAT HE'S
ON THE DEFENSIVE AND CAN'T
GET HIS WAY.
I THINK THEIR FEELING IS
IT'S A NICE STORY FOR THE
PRESS TO FOCUS ON BUT
THEY'VE GOT BIGGER FISH
THEY'RE GOING TO TRY TO FRY.
BUT I DO THINK THAT THERE IS
A QUESTION ABOUT WHAT THEIR
AMBITIONS ARE ON THE BUDGET
AT THIS POINT.
I'M NOT CONVINCED THAT THEY
ARE AS AMBITIOUS IN THEIR
EXPECTATIONS AS THEY MIGHT
HAVE BEEN BEFORE.
SO WE COULD GET SOME
SOLUTION TO THE BUDGET
ISSUE.
BUT EVERY PIECE OF HISTORY
OVER THE LAST SEVERAL YEARS
TELLS US THAT IN THE END WE
DO A MINIMAL DEAL, NOT A
MAXIMUM DEAL.
>> Woodruff: JUST A FINAL
QUICK QUESTION ABOUT
HEALTH-CARE REFORM,
IMPLEMENTING HEALTH-CARE
REFORM.
THAT CAME UP TODAY.
THE PRESIDENT SAID HE'S
CONFIDENT THEY CAN WORK THAT
THROUGH.
WHAT DO YOU SEE ON THAT?
>> WELL, WE KNOW FROM OUR
CONVERSATIONS WITH DEMOCRATS
IN THE STATES THAT THERE IS
AN APPREHENSION THAT THIS IS
GOING TO IMPACT THEM IN THE
MIDTERMS.
AND WE SAW MAX BAUCUS THE
OTHER DAY CALL THIS THING A
TRAIN WRECK, SO I THINK IT
IS VERY MUCH AN OPEN
QUESTION HOW THEY DEAL WITH
IT.
>> THE PRESIDENT WAS TRYING
TO SAY FOR MOST OF THE
COUNTRY THIS IS TO THE GOING
TO BE A PROBLEM.
BUT WE KNOW THERE ARE A LOT
OF ISSUES FOR THE
IMPLEMENTATION OF THAT PART
OF IT WHICH STILL HAS TO
COME.
>> Woodruff: THIS IS FOR
SOMETHING THAT HAS ALREADY
PASSED.
>> RIGHT.
>> Woodruff: JUST A MATTER
OF GETTING IT IMPLEMENTED.
DAN BALZ, GLENN THRUSH,
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: WE TURN TO THE
INVESTIGATION INTO THE BOSTON
BOMBINGS, AND TO RAY SUAREZ, WHO
HAS THE LATEST.
>> Suarez: IT'S BEEN JUST OVER
TWO WEEKS SINCE THE ATTACKS AND
INVESTIGATORS ARE PURSUING
SEVERAL LINES OF INQUIRY BOTH
HERE AND ABROAD.
THOSE INCLUDE, ACCORDING TO
SEVERAL NEWS ORGANIZATIONS,
WIDENING THE INVESTIGATION TO
SEE IF OTHERS MAY HAVE HELPED
THE SUSPECTS BEFORE OR AFTER THE
BOMBINGS, AND ARE CONTINUING TO
SPEAK WITH THE WIDOW OF THE 26-
YEAR-OLD SUSPECT WHO WAS KILLED,
TAMERLAN TSARNAEV.
AND AS THE PRESIDENT SAID AT HIS
NEWS CONFERENCE, THE DIRECTOR OF
NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE WILL
OVERSEE A REVIEW OF HOW 17
AGENCIES HANDLED EARLIER TIPS
AND QUESTIONS ABOUT THE OLDER
BROTHER.
FOR THE LATEST, WE TURN TO EVAN
PEREZ, WHO IS COVERING THE CASE
FOR THE "WALL STREET JOURNAL."
EVAN, FIRST OF ALL, IT'S A
GOOD REMIND THEIR THERE ARE
17 AGENCIES INVOLVED WITH
QUESTIONS LIKE THESE.
WHAT ARE THE KINDS OF
QUESTIS TONHAT THEY'RE GOING
TO BE ASKING THEMSELVE
APPROXIMATES ABOUT THE LAST
SEVERAL MONTHS?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, THIS
HAPPENS AFTER EVERY ONE OF
THESE TYPES OF EVENTS.
AND I THINK IT'S SORT OF A
NATURAL RESPONSE THAT
HAPPENS, ESPECIALLY FROM THE
WHITE HOUSE.
OBVIOUSLY SOMETHING WENT
WRONG HERE.
TWO BOMBS EXPLODED AND
PEOPLE DIED.
SO THEY WANT TO KNOW IF
THERE IS ANYTHING ELSE THEY
COULD HAVE DONE.
WE KNOW, FOR INSTANCE, THAT
THE RUSSIAN SECURITY AGENCY
IN 2011 EXPRESSED SOME
CONCERN ABOUT TAMERLAN
TSARNAEV AND HIS MOTHER.
AND WE KNOW THOSE CONCERNS
WERE SENT OVER TO THE FBE
AND TO THE CIA.
THE FB, LOOKED AT IT,
INVESTIGATED FOR ABOUT THREE
MONTHS.
DIDN'T FIND ENOUGH.
ASKED THE RUSSIANS FOR MORE
INFORMATION.
THEY NEVER GOT ANY.
SO RIGHT NOW I THINK THE
PRESIDENT SPOKE ABOUT THERE
TODAY WAS, YOU KNOW, I'M NOT
SURE THAT WE CAN SAY A BALL
WAS DROPPED PER SE.
>> Suzanne: HE DEFENDED THE
FBI.
>> HE DEFENDED THE FBI AND
SAID THEY DID WHAT THEY
COULD BASED ON THE
AUTHORITIES THEY HAVE UNDER
THE LAW.
THE RUSSIANS DIDN'T PROVIDE
FURTHER INFORMATION WHEN
THEY WERE ASKED.
IT'S ONLY NOW THAT THEY HAVE
COME FORWARD AND SAID WELL,
WE HAD SOME WIRETAPS THAT
HAD HER SPEAKING WITH SOME
SUSPICIOUS PEOPLE, AND HIM,RLAND
HIS MOTHER DISCUSSING VERY,
IN VERY BROAD TERMS, THE
CONCEPT OF JIHAD-- JIHAD.
SO NOW WE KNOW A LOT MORE.
PERHAPS THE FBI COULD HAVE
DONE MORE THEN.
BUT THAT'S HINDSIGHT.
>> Suzanne: MEANWHILE THE
CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION
CONTINUES.
AND NOW THEY'RE LOOKING MORE
CLOSELY AT TAMERLAN
TSARNAEV'S WIDOW.
WHAT DO WE KNOW ABOUT HER.
>> WELL, WE KNOW THAT THE
FBI HAS BEEN WANTING TO TALK
TO HER FOR, YOU KNOW,
FACE-TO-FACE FOR SEVERAL
DAYS HERE SINCE THE BOMBINGS
OR SINCE THEY IDENTIFIED
TAMERLAN AND DZHOKHAR.
SO THEY HAVE BEEN WANTING
AND TRYING TO NEGOTIATE WITH
HER LAWYERS TO A, GET MORE
TIME TO TALK TO HER.
AND ALSO TO GET SOME DNA
SAMPLES.
AS WE REPORTED YESTERDAY,
THE FBI FOUND SOME FEMALE
DNA ON REMNANTS OF THE BOMB
AND SO THEY WANT TO KNOW
WHETHER, YOU KNOW, BASICALLY
CROSS HAFER THE LIST IF
THAT'S THE CASE, THAT SHE
HAD NOTHING TO DO WITH IT.
SHE BASICALLY HAS SAID, YOU
KNOW, THAT SHE HAD NOTHING,
SHE WAS COMPLETELY SHOCKED
ABOUT THE EVENTS.
AND I THINK WHAT THEY WANT
TO KNOW IS, YOU KNOW, THE
KEY PERIOD BETWEEN THE
BOMBINGS ON MONDAY APRIL
15th AND FRIDAY, WHAT WAS
GOING ON THEN.
WHERE WAS TAMERLAN.
THEY KNOW A LOT MORE ABOUT
DZHOKHAR BECAUSE HE WAS AT A
DORM.
AND HE WAS IN COLLEGE.
AND HE'S IN AND OUT.
AND THERE'S MORE RECORDINGS
OF WHAT HE WAS DOING.
TAMERLAN IS A LITTLE BIT
MORE OF A MYSTERY AND I
THINK SHE MIGHT BE ABLE TO
SHED SOME LIGHT ON THAT.
>> Suzanne: THE NET SEEMS TO
BE WIDENING TO UP TO A DOZEN
MORE PEOPLE WHO MAY HAVE
SOME IDENTIFY ABOUT THE
WHEREABOUTS OF THIS.
>> RIGHT THERE ARE PLENTY OF
ASSOCIATES I THINK THE FBI
IS VERY INTERESTED IN, SOME
MORE THAN OTHERS.
THERE ARE SOME CONCERN THAT
PERHAPS SOME OF THESE FOLKS
MIGHT HAVE HELPED GET RID OF
EVIDENCE, UNWITTINGLY,
PERHAPS NOT ON PURPOSE BUT A
BROTHER MIGHT HAVE ASKED ONE
OF THEM TO GET RID OF SOME
MATERIALS SON AND ON.
AND SO THE FBI HAS BEEN
ESSENTIALLY LOOKING INTO
THAT.
THEY'VE BEEN DOING A LOT OF
SEARCHES.
ONE OF THE BIG PROBLEMS WITH
THE CASE RIGHT NOW IS TRYING
TO FIGURE OUT WHERE THEY PUT
THE BOMBS TOGETHER.
IT'S STILL SOMEWHAT OF A
MYSTERY.
THEY DID SEARCHES OF THE
HOME, THE BROTHERS SHARED IN
CAMBRIDGE AND FOUND NO
RESIDUE.
AND SO THESE ARE MESSY
THINGS TO PUT TOGETHER.
THESE ARE BLACK POWDER
BOMBS.
SO IT'S VERY UNUSUAL FOR YOU
NOT TO BE ABLE TO FIND IT
YOU WOULD HAVE TO BE REALLY
GOOD AT CLEANING UP TO BE
ABLE TO ERASE ALL PROOF OF
THIS.
SO THAT'S SOMETHING THAT I
THINK THEY HOPE THESE FOLKS
CAN HELP THEM FIGURE OUT.
>> Suzanne: DURING THIS TIME
MORE ATTENTION HAS BEEN
FOCUSED ON THE JOURNEY THAT
ZUBEIDAT TSARNAEV, TAMERLAN
AND DZHOKHAR'S MOTHER HAS
TAKEN DURING THESE YEARS.
WE SEE A COUPLE OF YEARS AGO
A WOMAN IN STYLISH CLOTHES,
STYLISH HAIR STYLES.
AND NOW A WOMAN IN BLACK
WITH HER HEAD COVERED, A
VERY DIFFERENT KIND OF
PERSON.
>> WELL, YEAH.
YOU KNOW, HER RELIGIOUS TURN
STORE OF MIRRORS HER SONS.
AND IT APPEARS WHAT HAPPENED
IS YOU KNOW AFTER A FEW
YEARS HERE IN THE UNITED
STATES, THE FAMILY WAS
STRUGGLING.
THE BOYS ARE BEGINNING TO
PARTY.
THEY'RE STARTING TO ENJOY
AMERICAN LIFE.
AND SHE BECOMES WORRIED.
AND SHE TURNS TO RELIGION AS
SORT OF A WAY TO BRING THEM
BACK IT HAPPENS A LOT WITH
IMMIGRANT FAMILIES.
AN I THINK SHE WAS TRYING TO
DO THAT.
REUSED RELIGION.
AND IT LOOKS LIKE, I BELIEVE
FROM WHAT WE CAN SEE RIGHT
NOW, SHE IS KEY TO THE
BEGINNING OF HIS RELIGIOUS
TURN.
HE AT SOME POINT GOES OFF IN
A DIFFERENT DIRECTION.
SHE SAYS THAT SHE NEVER PUT
HIM ON TO THE PATH OF
EXTREMISM.
BUT IT'S CLEAR THAT SHE WAS
VERY KEY, AT LEAST IN THE
BEGINNING, FOR HIS RELIGIOUS
TURN.
>> Suzanne: THERE'S BEEN A
LOT OF SPECULATION ABOUT
SOMEONE NAMED MICHA.
WHO IS IT?
HAVE WE TALKED TO THIS
PERSON?
AND WHAT HAVE THEY SAID FOR
THEMSELVES IT IS.
>> THE FBI WAS VERY
MYSTIFIED.
THIS WAS SOMETHING BROUGHT
UP BY MEMBERS OF THE FAMILY
WHO, THE TSARNAEV FAMILY WHO
ESSENTIALLY SAID THAT THEY
WERE VERY WORRIED THAT THERE
WAS THIS MYSTERIOUS ARMENIAN
FIGURE WHO WAS VERY KEY TO
RADICALLIZING TAMERLAN.
THE FBI TRACKED DONE THIS
PERSON.
HE IS A UKRAINIAN ARMENIAN
DISSENT.
LIVE-- LIVES IN RHODE
ISLAND.
THEY INTERVIEWED HIM, THEY
HAVE GOTTEN HIS COMPUTER,
INTERVIEWED HIM.
AT THIS POINT THEY BELIEVE
HE HAD NOTHING TO DO WITH
IT.
HE HAS TOLD IN INTERVIEWS
THAT HE HASN'T SEEN TAMERLAN
IN THREE YEARS.
AND THAT IF INDEED HE KNEW
ABOUT THIS, HE WOULD HAVE
TRIED TO STOP IT.
SO I THINK THE FBI BELIEVES
HIM AND THINKS THAT THIS
MIGHT JUST BE ANOTHER ONE OF
THOSE YOU KNOW BLIND ALLEYS
THAT THESE CASES TEND TO
GENERATE.
>> Suzanne: EVAN, THANKS FOR
JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NEXT, THE GROWING
PROBLEM OF PRESCRIPTION DRUG
ABUSE AND HOW IT CAN LEAD TO
DANGEROUS CONSEQUENCES.
SEVERAL STATES ARE NOW TRYING TO
TACKLE WHAT THEY SEE AS A
SERIOUS PUBLIC HEALTH CONCERN.
OKLAHOMA IS ONE OF THE LEADING
STATES ON THAT FRONT AS HEALTH
CORRESPONDENT BETTY ANN BOWSER
REPORTS.
>> Reporter: HE WAS U.S. ARMY,
ALL-AMERICAN.
>> Reporter: AUSTIN BOX SEEMED
TO HAVE IT ALL.
HE WAS A STAR LINEBACKER FOR THE
TOP TEN UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA
SOONERS.
FROM CHILDHOOD, HIS LIFE WAS
PLAYED OUT IN THE SPOTLIGHT.
>> THIS IS AFTER HE CAUSED A BIG
STOP AGAINST BAYLOR.
>> Reporter: SO WHEN BOX DIED
SUDDENLY AT AGE 22, IT REVEALED
A DARKER SIDE OF LIFE FEW PEOPLE
KNEW ABOUT, ONE OF PAIN AND THE
CONSEQUENCES OF TAKING TOO MUCH
PAIN MEDICATION.
IN MAY OF 2011, JUST TWO WEEKS
AFTER GRADUATION, AUSTIN BOX WAS
FOUND UNRESPONSIVE.
HIS FATHER CRAIG BOX REMEMBERS
THE CALL LIKE IT WAS YESTERDAY.
>> I HAD A PHONE CALL FROM THE
OFFICE THAT THERE WAS A PROBLEM
WITH AUSTIN.
HE WAS NOT BREATHING AT TIMES
AND HIS HEART STOPPED, AND THEY
WERE REVIVING HIM.
THAT'S ALL I KNEW UNTIL WE GOT
TO THE HOSPITAL.
>> Reporter: A TOXICOLOGY REPORT
SHOWED THAT BOX, NUMBER 12, HAD
TAKEN A LETHAL COMBINATION OF
FIVE DIFFERENT PAIN MEDICATIONS.
NONE HAD BEEN PRESCRIBED TO HIM.
BOX HAD A LONG HISTORY OF
INJURIES, INCLUDING A BAD BLOW
TO HIS BACK THAT RUPTURED A
DISC.
>> I THINK THAT INJURY WAS VERY
PAINFUL, AND I THINK PLAYING
THROUGH THAT WAS PAINFUL.
YOU HAD TO KNOW AUSTIN AND
UNDERSTAND THAT HE NEVER
COMPLAINED ABOUT ANYTHING-- AND
I MEAN NEVER.
>> Reporter: AUSTIN'S PARENTS
HAD NO IDEA HE WAS TAKING PAIN
KILLERS OR WHERE THEY CAME FROM.
>> IT WAS JUST A COMPLETE SHOCK.
IT WAS CLEARLY SOMETHING HE
TRIED TO KEEP FROM US.
WELL, I KNOW HE DID.
>> Reporter: WHILE BOX'S DEATH
WAS A TERRIBLE SHOCK, IT WAS
ALSO AN ENDING HEALTH OFFICIALS
IN OKLAHOMA ARE TOO FAMILIAR
WITH.
THE NUMBER ONE CAUSE OF OVERDOSE
DEATHS HERE IS MISUSE OF
PRESCRIPTION PAINKILLERS.
TERRY CLINE IS OKLAHOMA'S
COMMISSIONER OF HEALTH.
>> OVER THE LAST TEN YEARS,
ABOUT TEN YEARS, WE'VE SEEN A
372% INCREASE IN THE NUMBER OF
DEATHS FROM THE MISUSE OF
PRESCRIPTION DRUGS.
IT'S HUGE.
>> Reporter: IN FACT, IN
OKLAHOMA MORE OVERDOSE DEATHS
INVOLVE PRESCRIPTION PAINKILLERS
THAN HEROIN, COCAINE, AND
METHAMPHETAMINE COMBINED.
THE PEOPLE DYING FROM PAINKILLER
ABUSE DON'T FIT THE PROFILE OF
ILLEGAL DRUG USERS-- PEOPLE LIKE
AUSTIN BOX.
>> I THINK HE WAS AN ALL-
AMERICAN BOY WHO WAS STRUGGLING
WITH AN ALL-AMERICAN ISSUE THAT
IS PREVALENT IN COMMUNITIES
ACROSS OUR COUNTRY.
>> Reporter: NATIONALLY, ANNUAL
DEATHS FROM ABU
PRESCRIPTION PAINKILLERS, OR
OPIOIDS, HAS QUADRUPLED TO MORE
THAN 16,000 DEATHS.
DR. THOMAS FRIEDEN IS THE
DIRECTOR OF THE CENTERS FOR
DISEASE CONTROL.
>> WE'VE HAD A HUGE INCREASE IN
THE AMOUNT OF THESE DRS THUGAT
ARE PRESCRIBED.
AND THE MORE THAT THEY ARE
PRESCRIBED, THE MORE THEY'RE
ABUSED.
THAT'S THE BOTTOM LINE.
>> Reporter: IN FACT, THE
PAINKILLER HYDROCODONE, FOUND IN
THE POPULAR DRUG VICODIN, IS THE
MOST PRESCRIBED DRUG IN THE
UNITED STATES.
DOCTORS SAY, TAKEN AS DIRECTED,
PAINKILLERS CAN BE A GODSEND FOR
PAIN SUFFERERS.
BUT NATIONAL SURVEYS SHOW THE
MAJORITY OF PEOPLE WHO MISUSE
PRESCRIION PAPTINKILLERS GET
THEM NOT FROM THEIR DOCTOR, BUT
FROM A FRIEND.
WHITNEY BOX, AUSTIN'S SISTER,
BELIEVES THAT WAS TRUE IN HER
BROTHER'S CASE.
>> I THINK HE WAS GETTING THEM
FOR FREE FROM PEOPLE WHO JUST
WANTED TO BE IN HIS LIFE AND
LIVE IN HIS WORLD.
THEY WANTED TO GET CLOSER TO
HIM, WANTED TO GET CLOSER TO ALL
THE PLAYERS.
>> Reporter: IN MANY CASES,
PILLS ARE LIFTED FROM THE FAMILY
MEDICINE CABINET.
>> THEY'RE NOT GETTING IT FROM
DRUG DEALERS, THEY'RE NOT
GETTING IT OFF THE INTERNET,
THEY'RE NOT PURCHASING IT FROM
SOMEBODY DOWN THE STREET.
THEY'RE GETTING IT RIGHT FROM
OUR VERY HOMES.
>> Reporter: THAT'SHAT  WWAYNE
WALKER DID AFTER PAIN
MEDICATIONS PRESCRIBED FOR A
RUPTURED DISC LED HIM TO
ADDICTION.
>> WHEN I WAS HEAVILY INTO MY
ADDICTION, I WAS ASKING PEOPLE
IF I COULD USE THEIR BATHROOM,
BECAUSE I WAS GOING TO GO
THROUGH YOUR MEDICINE CABINET.
>> Reporter: WALKER HAS BEEN
CLEAN FOR OVER A YEAR NOW.
HIS DOCTOR, HAL VORSE, WHO
SPECIALIZES IN OPIOID ADDICTION,
SAYS PEOPLE HAVE THE MISTAKEN
SENSE THAT PRESCRIPTION PILLS
ARE SAFE.
>> ONE OF THE FIRST THINGS OUT
OF THEIR MOUTHS IS, WELL, I
CAN'T SEE WHY IT'S A PROBLEM,
BECAUSE IT'S LEGAL.
WELL, YOU KNOW, IT DOESN'T
MATTER WHETHER YOU BUY YOUR
DRUGS IN A LIQUOR STORE A
PHARMACY OR ON THE STREET.
YOU'RE GOING TO END UP DEAD AT
THE END.
YOU KNOW, ADDICTION DOESN'T CARE
WHERE YOU GET YOUR DRUGS.
>> Reporter: DR. VORSE SAYS
PHYSICIANS DON'T ALWAYS SEE
SIGNS OF DEPENDENCY.
>> THE PROBLEM IS THAT MANY
TIMES DOCTORS HAVEN'T BEEN
TRAINED IN ADDICTION, TO
RECOGNIZE AND UNDERSTAND WHEN
PEOPLE START ABUSING AND THEY GO
OVER THE LINE TO ADDICTION.
>> WHEN I WAS IN MEDICAL SCHOOL,
THE NUMBER ONE THING I LEARNED
WAS WRONG, AND THE NUMBER ONE
THING I LEARNED WAS, IF YOU GIVE
OPIATES TO A PATIENT WHO'S IN
PAIN, THEY WILL NOT GET
ADDICTED.
COMPLETELY WRONG.
BUT A GENERATION OF DOCTORS, A
GENERATION OF US GREW UP BEING
TRAINED THAT THESE DRUGS AREN'T
RISKY.
>> Reporter: IN FACT, THEY ARE
HEALTH OFFICIALS ALSO CITE A
RISKY.
CULTURAL SHIFT IN THE ACCEPTANCE
HEALTH OFFICIALS ALSO CITE A
OF TAKING PRESCRIPTION DRUGS IN
CULTURAL SHIFT IN THE ACCEPTANCE
GENERAL.
OF TAKING PRESCRIPTION DRUGS IN
>> IN OUR SOCIETY, WE EXPECT A
GENERAL.
PILL TO MAKE OUR LIVES EASIER TO
>> IN OUR SOCIETY, WE EXPECT A
MANAGE.
PILL TO MAKE OUR LIVES EASIER TO
SOMETIMES WE TAKE THE EASY WAY
MANAGE.
OUT.
SOMETIMES WE TAKE THE EASY WAY
>> Reporter: OKLAHOMA IS TAKING
OUT.
STEPS TO TACKLE ABUSE.
>> Reporter: OKLAHOMA IS TAKING
THE GOVERNOR HAS PROPOSED $16
STEPS TO TACKLE ABUSE.
MILLION FOR TREATMENT, PUBLIC
THE GOVERNOR HAS PROPOSED $16
AWARENESS, AND EDUCATION.
MILLION FOR TREATMENT, PUBLIC
THE LEGISLATURE HAS DEBATED
AWARENESS, AND EDUCATION.
SEVERAL BILLS.
THE LEGISLATURE HAS DEBATED
ONE, SPONSORED BY SENATOR ROB
SEVERAL BILLS.
STANDRIDGE-- HIMSELF A
ONE, SPONSORED BY SENATOR ROB
PHARMACIST-- WOULD ALERT DOCTORS
STANDRIDGE-- HIMSELF A
WITH AN ELECTRONIC RED FLAG ON
PHARMACIST-- WOULD ALERT DOCTORS
PATIENT RECORDS IF THEY'RE
WITH AN ELECTRONIC RED FLAG ON
ALREADY RECEIVING PAIN KILLERS.
PATIENT RECORDS IF THEY'RE
>> WHEN A PATIENT PICKS UP AHYE,
ALREADY RECEIVING PAIN KILLERS.
PHARMACISTS ARE REQUIRED TO SEND
>> WHEN A PATIENT PICKS UP AHYE,
THAT INFORMATION IN IMMEDIATELY.
PHARMACISTS ARE REQUIRED TO SEND
WHAT THIS BILL DOES IS TAKE THAT
THAT INFORMATION IN IMMEDIATELY.
DATA AND PROACTIVELY ALERT THE
WHAT THIS BILL DOES IS TAKE THAT
PHYSICIANS.
DATA AND PROACTIVELY ALERT THE
>> Reporter: STANDRIDGE'S HOUSE
PHYSICIANS.
SPONSOR OF THE LEGISLATION,
>> Reporter: STANDRIDGE'S HOUSE
REPRESENTATIVE RICHARD
SPONSOR OF THE LEGISLATION,
MORRISSETTE, SAYS GETTING A BILL
REPRESENTATIVE RICHARD
PASSED AIMED AT PRESCRIPTION
MORRISSETTE, SAYS GETTING A BILL
DRUG ABUSE WAS A POLITICAL
PASSED AIMED AT PRESCRIPTION
STRUGGLE.
DRUG ABUSE WAS A POLITICAL
>> WHETHER IT'S THE
STRUGGLE.
PHARMACEUTICALS, THE DOCTORS, OR
>> WHETHER IT'S THE
MANUFACTURERS, EVERYBODY HAS A
PHARMACEUTICALS, THE DOCTORS, OR
LOBBYIST AND A SPECIAL INTEREST
MANUFACTURERS, EVERYBODY HAS A
TRYING TO PROTECT WHAT IS.
LOBBYIST AND A SPECIAL INTEREST
AND THEY DON'T WANT CHANGE,
TRYING TO PROTECT WHAT IS.
BECAUSE THEY ARE VERY FAMILIAR
AND THEY DON'T WANT CHANGE,
WITH WHAT IS.
BECAUSE THEY ARE VERY FAMILIAR
PEOPLE ARE MAKING A LOT OF MONEY
WITH WHAT IS.
AT THIS, TOO.
PEOPLE ARE MAKING A LOT OF MONEY
WHEN YOU START PUSHING ON THOSE
AT THIS, TOO.
NERVES, YOU'RE GOING TO GET PUSH
WHEN YOU START PUSHING ON THOSE
BACK, AND THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT'S
NERVES, YOU'RE GOING TO GET PUSH
HAPPENED.
BACK, AND THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT'S
>> Reporter: SOME PHYSICIANS
HAPPENED.
DON'T THINK LEGISLATORS SHOULD
>> Reporter: SOME PHYSICIANS
TELL DOCTORS HOW TO PRACTICE
DON'T THINK LEGISLATORS SHOULD
MEDICINE.S IS A
TELL DOCTORS HOW TO PRACTICE
SPECIALIST IN PAIN MANAGEMENT
MEDICINE.S IS A
WHO TREATS PATIENTS IN ADVANCED
SPECIALIST IN PAIN MANAGEMENT
STAGES OF CANCER.
WHO TREATS PATIENTS IN ADVANCED
MORRIS SAYS SOME PHYSICIANS ARE
STAGES OF CANCER.
SO WORRIED ABOUT PATIENT ABUSE
MORRIS SAYS SOME PHYSICIANS ARE
THAT THEY'VE STOPPED PRESCRIBING
SO WORRIED ABOUT PATIENT ABUSE
PAINKILLERS ALTOGETHER.
THAT THEY'VE STOPPED PRESCRIBING
>> WITH ALL THE PRESSURE,
PAINKILLERS ALTOGETHER.
LEGISLATIVE PRESSURE, THE LAW
>> WITH ALL THE PRESSURE,
ENFORCEMENT PRESSURE, THE PRESS,
LEGISLATIVE PRESSURE, THE LAW
MEDIA, IT'S BECOMING MORE AND
ENFORCEMENT PRESSURE, THE PRESS,
MORE DIFFICULT FOR PHYSICIANS TO
MEDIA, IT'S BECOMING MORE AND
OFFER, YOU KNOW, PAIN
MORE DIFFICULT FOR PHYSICIANS TO
MEDICATIONS TO PEOPLE WHO REALLY
OFFER, YOU KNOW, PAIN
DESERVE IT.
MEDICATIONS TO PEOPLE WHO REALLY
AND YOU'RE SEEING FAMILY DOCTORS
DESERVE IT.
WHO PUT SIGNS UP IN THE WAITING
AND YOU'RE SEEING FAMILY DOCTORS
ROOM: "WE DO NOT PRESCRIBE
WHO PUT SIGNS UP IN THE WAITING
HYDROCODONE, WE DO NOT PRESCRIBE
ROOM: "WE DO NOT PRESCRIBE
METHADONE."
HYDROCODONE, WE DO NOT PRESCRIBE
>> Reporter: AUSTIN BOX'S FAMILY
METHADONE."
WOULD LIKE OTHERS TO REMEMBER
>> Reporter: AUSTIN BOX'S FAMILY
THE YOUNG LIFE DESTROYED BY
WOULD LIKE OTHERS TO REMEMBER
DRUGS.
THE YOUNG LIFE DESTROYED BY
>> HE WAS A VERY SENSITIVE,
DRUGS.
CARING PERSON.
>> HE WAS A VERY SENSITIVE,
HE WAS FRIENDS WITH EVERYBODY.
CARING PERSON.
HE TREATED EVERYBODY WITH
HE WAS FRIENDS WITH EVERYBODY.
RESPECT.
HE TREATED EVERYBODY WITH
>> Reporter: THE FAMILY HAS
RESPECT.
STARTED A FOUNDATION TO EDUCATE
>> Reporter: THE FAMILY HAS
DOCTORS, PATIENTS, AND POLICY
STARTED A FOUNDATION TO EDUCATE
MAKERS, SO THAT OTHER FAMILIES
DOCTORS, PATIENTS, AND POLICY
WILL NOT HAVE TO LIVE THROUGH A
MAKERS, SO THAT OTHER FAMILIES
SIMILAR TRAGEDY.
WILL NOT HAVE TO LIVE THROUGH A
>> Woodruff: ON OUR HEALTH PAGE,
SIMILAR TRAGEDY.
THE TOP TEN THINGS THE CENTERS
>> Woodruff: ON OUR HEALTH PAGE,
FOR DISEASE CONTROL SAYS YOU
THE TOP TEN THINGS THE CENTERS
SHOULD KNOW ABOUT PRESCRIPTION
FOR DISEASE CONTROL SAYS YOU
DRUG ABUSE.
SHOULD KNOW ABOUT PRESCRIPTION
IF YOU STILL HAVE QUESTIONS,
DRUG ABUSE.
SEND THEM TO US AND A C.D.C.
IF YOU STILL HAVE QUESTIONS,
OFFICIAL WILL ANSWER THEM ON OUR
SEND THEM TO US AND A C.D.C.
WEB SITE IN THE DAYS AHEAD.
OFFICIAL WILL ANSWER THEM ON OUR
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT, THE
WEB SITE IN THE DAYS AHEAD.
NEW ARENA FOR AN OLD AND
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT, THE
FIERCELY FOUGHT DEBATE OVER
NEW ARENA FOR AN OLD AND
ABORTION.
FIERCELY FOUGHT DEBATE OVER
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR UPDATE.>>L
ABORTION.
BATTLEGROUND IN THE DEBATE
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR UPDATE.>>L
OVER ABORTION RIGHTS HAS
BATTLEGROUND IN THE DEBATE
SHIFTED IN RECENT YEARS TO
OVER ABORTION RIGHTS HAS
THE STATES.
SHIFTED IN RECENT YEARS TO
IN JUST THE PAST TWO MONTHS
THE STATES.
FIVE STATES ALABAMA,
IN JUST THE PAST TWO MONTHS
ARKANSAS, KANSAS, NORTH
FIVE STATES ALABAMA,
DAKOTA AND VERGE
ARKANSAS, KANSAS, NORTH
WHY-- VIRGINIA HAVE APPROVED
DAKOTA AND VERGE
MORE STRINGENT RESTRICTIONS
WHY-- VIRGINIA HAVE APPROVED
IN ABORTION.
MORE STRINGENT RESTRICTIONS
IN NORTH DAKOTA THE NEW LAW
IN ABORTION.
PROHIBIT AS BORTION AS SOON
IN NORTH DAKOTA THE NEW LAW
AS A FETAL HEARTBEAT IS
PROHIBIT AS BORTION AS SOON
DETECTED, COULD BE SOON
AS A FETAL HEARTBEAT IS
AS-- AS SOON AS 6 WEEKS.
DETECTED, COULD BE SOON
>> NORTH DAKOTA LEAVES IN
AS-- AS SOON AS 6 WEEKS.
THE LIFE OF THE UNBORN CHILD
>> NORTH DAKOTA LEAVES IN
AND BELIEVES HEARTBEAT IS
THE LIFE OF THE UNBORN CHILD
LIFE.
AND BELIEVES HEARTBEAT IS
>> UNDERMINING THE STANDARDS
LIFE.
SET OUT IN THE SUPREME COURT
>> UNDERMINING THE STANDARDS
1973 RULING IN "ROE VERSUS
SET OUT IN THE SUPREME COURT
WADE".
1973 RULING IN "ROE VERSUS
THAT DECISIONAVE G WOMEN THE
WADE".
RIGHT TO AN ABORTION UNTIL
THAT DECISIONAVE G WOMEN THE
THE FETUS IS VIABLE OUTSIDE
RIGHT TO AN ABORTION UNTIL
THE WOMB, ABOUT 24 WEEKS IT
THE FETUS IS VIABLE OUTSIDE
INTO PREGNANCY.
THE WOMB, ABOUT 24 WEEKS IT
SPEAKING LAST FRIDAY AT A
INTO PREGNANCY.
PLANNED PARENTHOOD
SPEAKING LAST FRIDAY AT A
CONFERENCE, PRESIDENT OBAMA
PLANNED PARENTHOOD
TOOK AIM AT MEASURES
CONFERENCE, PRESIDENT OBAMA
DESIGNED TO LIMIT ABORTION
TOOK AIM AT MEASURES
RIGHTS.
DESIGNED TO LIMIT ABORTION
HE TOLD THE CROWD SUCH
RIGHTS.
POLICIES WOULD, QUOTE, ROLL
HE TOLD THE CROWD SUCH
BACK BASIC RIGHTS WHEN IT
POLICIES WOULD, QUOTE, ROLL
COMES TO WOMEN'S HEALTH.
BACK BASIC RIGHTS WHEN IT
>> WHEN YOU READ ABOUT SOME
COMES TO WOMEN'S HEALTH.
OF THESE LAWS, YOU WANT TO
>> WHEN YOU READ ABOUT SOME
CHECK THE CALENDAR.
OF THESE LAWS, YOU WANT TO
YOU WANT TO MAKE SURE YOU
CHECK THE CALENDAR.
ARE STILL LIVING IN 2013.
YOU WANT TO MAKE SURE YOU
40 YEARS AFTER THE SUPREME
ARE STILL LIVING IN 2013.
COURT AFFIRMED A WOMAN'S
40 YEARS AFTER THE SUPREME
CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHT TO
COURT AFFIRMED A WOMAN'S
PRIVACY INCLUDING THE RIGHT
CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHT TO
TO CHOOSE, WE SHOULDN'T HAVE
PRIVACY INCLUDING THE RIGHT
TO REMIND PEOPLE THAT WHEN
TO CHOOSE, WE SHOULDN'T HAVE
IT COMES TO A WOMAN'S HEALTH,
TO REMIND PEOPLE THAT WHEN
NO POLITICIAN SHOULD GET TO
IT COMES TO A WOMAN'S HEALTH,
DECIDES WHAT'S BEST FOR YOU.
NO POLITICIAN SHOULD GET TO
>> Brown: THE PRESIDENT ALSO
DECIDES WHAT'S BEST FOR YOU.
PLEDGED TO FIGHT EVERY STEP
>> Brown: THE PRESIDENT ALSO
OF THE WAY ON BEHALF OF
PLEDGED TO FIGHT EVERY STEP
PLANNED PARENTHOOD.
OF THE WAY ON BEHALF OF
TWO REPUBLICANS IN CONGRESS
PLANNED PARENTHOOD.
AND SEVERAL GOP CONTROLLED
TWO REPUBLICANS IN CONGRESS
STATE LEGISLATURES,
AND SEVERAL GOP CONTROLLED
INTRODUCED INITIATIVES TO
STATE LEGISLATURES,
DEFUND THE ORGANIZATION.
INTRODUCED INITIATIVES TO
MEANWHILE, ANTIABORTION
DEFUND THE ORGANIZATION.
ACTIVISTS ARE ALSO POINTING
MEANWHILE, ANTIABORTION
TO THE TRIAL OF PHILADELPHIA
ACTIVISTS ARE ALSO POINTING
DOCTOR KERMIT GOZ DNEL,
TO THE TRIAL OF PHILADELPHIA
SPEAKING-- SEEKING TO
DOCTOR KERMIT GOZ DNEL,
PRESSURE LAWMAKERS TO ENACT
SPEAKING-- SEEKING TO
STRICTER REGULATIONS FOR
PRESSURE LAWMAKERS TO ENACT
ABORTION CLINICS.
STRICTER REGULATIONS FOR
HE IS FACING FOUR CHARGES OF
ABORTION CLINICS.
FIRST-DEGREE MURDER RELATED
HE IS FACING FOUR CHARGES OF
TO LATE-TERM ABORTION
FIRST-DEGREE MURDER RELATED
PROCEDURES.
TO LATE-TERM ABORTION
THE JURY IN THAT CASE BEGAN
PROCEDURES.
ITS DELIBERATIONS TODAY.
THE JURY IN THAT CASE BEGAN
>> Brown: SO HOW DOES EACH
ITS DELIBERATIONS TODAY.
SIDE SEE THE FOCUS AS IT IS
>> Brown: SO HOW DOES EACH
SHIFTED FROM WASHINGTON TO
SIDE SEE THE FOCUS AS IT IS
THE STATES?
SHIFTED FROM WASHINGTON TO
AND WHAT'S NEXT?
THE STATES?
JOINED BY CHARMAINE YOEST,
AND WHAT'S NEXT?
PRESIDENT OF AMERICANS
JOINED BY CHARMAINE YOEST,
UNITED FOR LIFE AND ILYCE
PRESIDENT OF AMERICANS
HOUGH, NEWLY INSTALLED
UNITED FOR LIFE AND ILYCE
PRESIDENT OF-- PRO-CHOICE
HOUGH, NEWLY INSTALLED
AMERICA.
PRESIDENT OF-- PRO-CHOICE
LET ME START WITH YOU.
AMERICA.
WHAT DO YOU SEE HAPPENING IN
LET ME START WITH YOU.
THE STATES THAT IS LEADING
WHAT DO YOU SEE HAPPENING IN
TO THIS.
THE STATES THAT IS LEADING
>> YOU KNOW WE SEE AN
TO THIS.
EXTREME AGENDA TAKING HOLD
>> YOU KNOW WE SEE AN
IN SOME OF THESE STATES THAT
EXTREME AGENDA TAKING HOLD
FIRST OF ALL DOESN'T FIND
IN SOME OF THESE STATES THAT
SUPPORT ACROSS AMERICA.
FIRST OF ALL DOESN'T FIND
70% OF AMERICANS BELIEVE
SUPPORT ACROSS AMERICA.
THAT ROE SHOULD BE UPHELD.
70% OF AMERICANS BELIEVE
AND WE'RE SEEING OUT OF
THAT ROE SHOULD BE UPHELD.
TOUCH POLITICIANS ACTUALLY,
AND WE'RE SEEING OUT OF
NOT ONLY ROLLING BACK
TOUCH POLITICIANS ACTUALLY,
WOMEN'S FREEDOM, BUT
NOT ONLY ROLLING BACK
ENDANGERING WOMEN'S LIVES AS
WOMEN'S FREEDOM, BUT
THEY PUT MORE AND MORE
ENDANGERING WOMEN'S LIVES AS
ARBITRARY RESTRICTIONS ON
THEY PUT MORE AND MORE
WOMEN BEING ABLE TO ACCESS
ARBITRARY RESTRICTIONS ON
SAFE AND LEGAL ABORTION AS
WOMEN BEING ABLE TO ACCESS
IS THEIR CONSTITUTIONAL
SAFE AND LEGAL ABORTION AS
RIGHT.
IS THEIR CONSTITUTIONAL
>> Brown: NOW I KNOW
RIGHT.
CHARMAINE YOEST YOU HAVE A
>> Brown: NOW I KNOW
DIFFERENT TAKE ON IT.
CHARMAINE YOEST YOU HAVE A
BUT WHY DO YOU THINK IT IS
DIFFERENT TAKE ON IT.
HAPPENING NOW?
BUT WHY DO YOU THINK IT IS
WHY SO MUCH IN THE STATES
HAPPENING NOW?
NOW?
WHY SO MUCH IN THE STATES
>> WELL, BECAUSE AMERICA'S
NOW?
ABORTION POLICY IS ACTUALLY
>> WELL, BECAUSE AMERICA'S
OUT OF TOUCH WITH THE
ABORTION POLICY IS ACTUALLY
AMERICAN PEOPLE.
OUT OF TOUCH WITH THE
WE HAVE AN ABORTION POLICY
AMERICAN PEOPLE.
THAT IS SO RADICAL THAT ONLY
WE HAVE AN ABORTION POLICY
CHINA AND NORTH KOREA AND
THAT IS SO RADICAL THAT ONLY
CANADA HAVE AS RADICAL A
CHINA AND NORTH KOREA AND
POLICY.
CANADA HAVE AS RADICAL A
>> Brown: IN WHAT SHALL
POLICY.
DID -- HOW DO YOU USE THAT
>> Brown: IN WHAT SHALL
WORD RADICAL WHAT DOES THAT
DID -- HOW DO YOU USE THAT
MEAN?
WORD RADICAL WHAT DOES THAT
>> MOST OF THE COUNTRIES
MEAN?
AROUND THE WORLD START TO
>> MOST OF THE COUNTRIES
LIMIT ABORTION AFTER 12
AROUND THE WORLD START TO
WEEKS.
LIMIT ABORTION AFTER 12
WE CAN HAVE ABORTION IN
WEEKS.
AMERICA THROUGHOUT ALL NINE
WE CAN HAVE ABORTION IN
MONTHS OF PREGNANCY.
AMERICA THROUGHOUT ALL NINE
SO WHAT YOU ARE SEEING IS
MONTHS OF PREGNANCY.
THIS RISING TIED OF PRO-LIFE
SO WHAT YOU ARE SEEING IS
LEGISLATION IS BEING
THIS RISING TIED OF PRO-LIFE
RESPONSIVE TO THE FACT THAT
LEGISLATION IS BEING
MOST AMERICANS HAVE A COMMON
RESPONSIVE TO THE FACT THAT
SENSE APPROACH TO ABORTION.
MOST AMERICANS HAVE A COMMON
WHERE THEY WANT TO SEE
SENSE APPROACH TO ABORTION.
PARENTAL CONSENT, INFORMED
WHERE THEY WANT TO SEE
CONSENT, CLINIC REGULATIONS.
PARENTAL CONSENT, INFORMED
THIS HORRIBLE TRIAL THAT YOU
CONSENT, CLINIC REGULATIONS.
ARE SEEING IN PHILADELPHIA
THIS HORRIBLE TRIAL THAT YOU
OF KERMIT GOZ DOES NEL WITH
ARE SEEING IN PHILADELPHIA
HIS HOUSE OF HORRORS
OF KERMIT GOZ DOES NEL WITH
ABORTION CLINIC IN
HIS HOUSE OF HORRORS
PHILADELPHIA SHOWS YOU
ABORTION CLINIC IN
EXACTLY WHAT HAPPENS WHEN
PHILADELPHIA SHOWS YOU
YOU HAVE A COMPLETELY
EXACTLY WHAT HAPPENS WHEN
UNREGULATED ABORTION
YOU HAVE A COMPLETELY
INDUSTRY, ALLOWED TO HAVE
UNREGULATED ABORTION
THEIR OWN OVERSIGHT OVER
INDUSTRY, ALLOWED TO HAVE
THEMSELVES.
THEIR OWN OVERSIGHT OVER
>> Brown: THAT TRIAL HAS
THEMSELVES.
GOTTEN A LOT OF ATTENTION.
>> Brown: THAT TRIAL HAS
>> I'M OUTRAGED.
GOTTEN A LOT OF ATTENTION.
AND I'VE BEEN OUT IN FRONT
>> I'M OUTRAGED.
SAYING I'M OUTRAGE SINCE I
AND I'VE BEEN OUT IN FRONT
TOOK THIS POSITION.
SAYING I'M OUTRAGE SINCE I
I THINK IT'S CRITICALLY
TOOK THIS POSITION.
IMPORTANT BECAUSE IT IS
I THINK IT'S CRITICALLY
EXACTLY THE ARBITRARY
IMPORTANT BECAUSE IT IS
RESTRICTIONS, THE LACK OF
EXACTLY THE ARBITRARY
FUNDING AVAILABLE FOR WOMEN,
RESTRICTIONS, THE LACK OF
WHO NEED SAFE MEDICAL CARE
FUNDING AVAILABLE FOR WOMEN,
THAT HAVE DRIVEN THESE
WHO NEED SAFE MEDICAL CARE
VULNERABLE WOMEN INTO
THAT HAVE DRIVEN THESE
CLUTCHES OF HIM.
VULNERABLE WOMEN INTO
I GET UP AND GO TO WORK
CLUTCHES OF HIM.
EVERY SINGLE DAY TO PREVENT
I GET UP AND GO TO WORK
WOMEN FROM VICTIMIZED BY THE
EVERY SINGLE DAY TO PREVENT
LIKES OF KERMIT GOZNEL.
WOMEN FROM VICTIMIZED BY THE
WHAT WE HAVE IS NOT THE-- WHAT
LIKES OF KERMIT GOZNEL.
HE WAS DOING WAS ILLEGAL IN
WHAT WE HAVE IS NOT THE-- WHAT
ALL 50 STATES, BY FEDERAL
HE WAS DOING WAS ILLEGAL IN
LAW AND IT IS PEOPLE LIKE
ALL 50 STATES, BY FEDERAL
THE EXTREMISTS WHO ARE
LAW AND IT IS PEOPLE LIKE
PUTTING ROADBLOCK AND
THE EXTREMISTS WHO ARE
ROADBLOCK DRIVING REPUTABLE
PUTTING ROADBLOCK AND
DOCTORS OUT OF BUSINESS AND
ROADBLOCK DRIVING REPUTABLE
DRIVING WOMEN TO THE KERMIT
DOCTORS OUT OF BUSINESS AND
GOZ DOES NELS.
DRIVING WOMEN TO THE KERMIT
>> Brown: LOOKING AT THE
GOZ DOES NELS.
STATES AGAIN, I WANT YOU TO
>> Brown: LOOKING AT THE
RESPOND ON THE STATE ISSUE,
STATES AGAIN, I WANT YOU TO
THE TRIAL ASIDE, GIVE ME AN
RESPOND ON THE STATE ISSUE,
EXAMPLE OF WHAT YOU SEE
THE TRIAL ASIDE, GIVE ME AN
HAPPENING IN THE STATE THAT
EXAMPLE OF WHAT YOU SEE
YOU FIND EGREGIOUS.
HAPPENING IN THE STATE THAT
>> WELL, I MEAN WHERE TO
YOU FIND EGREGIOUS.
START, RIGHT.
>> WELL, I MEAN WHERE TO
SOUTH CAROLINA.
START, RIGHT.
WE'RE NOT TALKING ABOUT
SOUTH CAROLINA.
REGULATIONS THAT KEEP WOMEN
WE'RE NOT TALKING ABOUT
SAFE.
REGULATIONS THAT KEEP WOMEN
I AGREE, IT'S ABSOLUTELY
SAFE.
COMMSEREAM
I AGREE, IT'S ABSOLUTELY
THAT WOMEN SHOULD HAVE
COMMSEREAM
SAFETY IN THEIR ACCESS TO
THAT WOMEN SHOULD HAVE
ABORTION CARE.
SAFETY IN THEIR ACCESS TO
WHAT WE ARE SEEING IN SOUTH
ABORTION CARE.
CAR LINEA IS THAT FACILITIES
WHAT WE ARE SEEING IN SOUTH
THAT PROVIDE ABORTION ARE
CAR LINEA IS THAT FACILITIES
SUBJECT TO ARBITRARY
THAT PROVIDE ABORTION ARE
RESTRICTIONS LIKE HOW LONG
SUBJECT TO ARBITRARY
ITS-- OUTSIDE THE CLINIC AND
RESTRICTIONS LIKE HOW LONG
SO THAT AS THOUGH THAT HAS
ITS-- OUTSIDE THE CLINIC AND
ANYTHING TO DO WITH THE CARE
SO THAT AS THOUGH THAT HAS
GOING ON OUTSIDE, THESE ARE
ANYTHING TO DO WITH THE CARE
BACK DOOR, BACK ALLEY
GOING ON OUTSIDE, THESE ARE
EFFORTS TO DRIVE CLINICS OUT
BACK DOOR, BACK ALLEY
OF BUSINESS, DRIVE WOMEN TO
EFFORTS TO DRIVE CLINICS OUT
BACK ALLEY PROVIDERS.
OF BUSINESS, DRIVE WOMEN TO
AND HARM THEM IN THE END,
BACK ALLEY PROVIDERS.
NOT KEEP THEM SAFE.
AND HARM THEM IN THE END,
>> Brown: YOUR RESPONSE TO A
NOT KEEP THEM SAFE.
SPECIFIC EXAMPLE LIKE THAT.
>> Brown: YOUR RESPONSE TO A
>> SURE, ABSOLUTELY THIS IS
SPECIFIC EXAMPLE LIKE THAT.
A REALLY DISINGENUOUS
>> SURE, ABSOLUTELY THIS IS
ARGUMENT BECAUSE NARAL AND
A REALLY DISINGENUOUS
NOW, AND PLANNED PARENTHOOD
ARGUMENT BECAUSE NARAL AND
HAVE NEVER MET AN ABORTION
NOW, AND PLANNED PARENTHOOD
RESTRICTION THEY ARE WILLING
HAVE NEVER MET AN ABORTION
TO SUPPORT.
RESTRICTION THEY ARE WILLING
EVERY TIME YOU SEE COMMON
TO SUPPORT.
SENSE SOLUTIONS PUT ON THE
EVERY TIME YOU SEE COMMON
TABLE THEY COME OUT AND
SENSE SOLUTIONS PUT ON THE
THEY-- .
TABLE THEY COME OUT AND
>> Brown: BUT LET ME --
THEY-- .
>> HERE IS THE THING, JEFF,
>> Brown: BUT LET ME --
IF I CAN MAKE AN ANALOGY.
>> HERE IS THE THING, JEFF,
THIS ISN'T A QUESTION OF
IF I CAN MAKE AN ANALOGY.
ACCESS.
THIS ISN'T A QUESTION OF
FOR EXAMPLE, WE COULD HAVE
ACCESS.
20 MORE RESTAURANTS IN
FOR EXAMPLE, WE COULD HAVE
AMERICA, WE COULD HAVE ALL
20 MORE RESTAURANTS IN
THE RESTAURANTS THAT YOU
AMERICA, WE COULD HAVE ALL
WANT, IF YOU DIDN'T HAVE THE
THE RESTAURANTS THAT YOU
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
WANT, IF YOU DIDN'T HAVE THE
TO OVERSEE AND TO COME IN
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
AND DO INSPECTIONS.
TO OVERSEE AND TO COME IN
BUT THEN WOULD YOU HAVE A
AND DO INSPECTIONS.
LOT MORE FOOD POISONING.
BUT THEN WOULD YOU HAVE A
AND THAT IS WHAT YOU SEE IN
LOT MORE FOOD POISONING.
THE ABORTION INDUSTRY TODAY.
AND THAT IS WHAT YOU SEE IN
YES, WE HAVE BACK ALLEY A,
THE ABORTION INDUSTRY TODAY.
BOS AND THEY ARE RUN BY BIG
YES, WE HAVE BACK ALLEY A,
A KBORTION IN THIS COUNTRY.
BOS AND THEY ARE RUN BY BIG
>> Brown: IS THE FOCUS IN
A KBORTION IN THIS COUNTRY.
THE STATES PRECISELY BECAUSE
>> Brown: IS THE FOCUS IN
OF THE DISSATISFACTION ON
THE STATES PRECISELY BECAUSE
YOUR SIDE WITH WHAT IS
OF THE DISSATISFACTION ON
HAPPENING IN THE COURTS?
YOUR SIDE WITH WHAT IS
>> WELL, THIS, WHAT IS
HAPPENING IN THE COURTS?
HAPPENING OUT THERE IN OUR
>> WELL, THIS, WHAT IS
CULTURE TODAY IS A GRASS
HAPPENING OUT THERE IN OUR
ROOTS UPRISING.
CULTURE TODAY IS A GRASS
WHERE YOU ARE SEEING A
ROOTS UPRISING.
RESPONSE TO A COMPLETELY OUT
WHERE YOU ARE SEEING A
OF CONTROL ABORTION
RESPONSE TO A COMPLETELY OUT
INDUSTRY.
OF CONTROL ABORTION
JUST IN THE LAST SIX MONTHS
INDUSTRY.
WE'VE SEEN TWO WOMEN DIE IN
JUST IN THE LAST SIX MONTHS
CLINICS THAT WERE LEGAL
WE'VE SEEN TWO WOMEN DIE IN
ABORTION CLINICS.
CLINICS THAT WERE LEGAL
AND YET THERE IS NO
ABORTION CLINICS.
OVERSIGHT BEING TAKEN CARE
AND YET THERE IS NO
OF.
OVERSIGHT BEING TAKEN CARE
AND SO AS A RESULT YOU HAVE
OF.
THEM, YOU KNOW, WHAT OTHER
AND SO AS A RESULT YOU HAVE
INDUSTRY DO YOU SEE THAT
THEM, YOU KNOW, WHAT OTHER
COMPLETELY HAS OVERSIGHT.
INDUSTRY DO YOU SEE THAT
FOR EXAMPLE IN OUR COUNTRY
COMPLETELY HAS OVERSIGHT.
TODAY WE HAVE VETERINARY
FOR EXAMPLE IN OUR COUNTRY
CLINICS BETTER REGULATED
TODAY WE HAVE VETERINARY
THAN ABORTION CLINICS.
CLINICS BETTER REGULATED
>> Brown: ARE YOU CITING
THAN ABORTION CLINICS.
PUBLIC ATTITUDES THAT
>> Brown: ARE YOU CITING
SUPPORT --
PUBLIC ATTITUDES THAT
>> WELL, NO, I'M CITING A
SUPPORT --
FACT THAT ABORTION CLINICS
>> WELL, NO, I'M CITING A
OR MEDICAL FACILITIES THAT
FACT THAT ABORTION CLINICS
PROVIDE ABORTION SHOULD AND
OR MEDICAL FACILITIES THAT
ARE UPHELD TO THE SAME
PROVIDE ABORTION SHOULD AND
SAFETY STANDARDS AS OTHER
ARE UPHELD TO THE SAME
MEDICAL FACILITIES.
SAFETY STANDARDS AS OTHER
WHAT WE ARE SEEING, AND
MEDICAL FACILITIES.
THERE IS WHERE IT IS HARD
WHAT WE ARE SEEING, AND
FOR ME TO HEAR CHARMAINE
THERE IS WHERE IT IS HARD
WITH ALL DUE RESPECT TO USE
FOR ME TO HEAR CHARMAINE
THE WORD COMMON SENSE.
WITH ALL DUE RESPECT TO USE
COMMON SENSE MEANS A
THE WORD COMMON SENSE.
COMMONLY HELD VAL U BY THE
COMMON SENSE MEANS A
COMMUNITY.
COMMONLY HELD VAL U BY THE
70% OF AMERICANS BELIEVE
COMMUNITY.
THAT THESE ARE DECISIONS
70% OF AMERICANS BELIEVE
THAT ARE BEST MADE BY WOMEN,
THAT THESE ARE DECISIONS
THEIR FAMILIES AND THEIR
THAT ARE BEST MADE BY WOMEN,
DOCTORS.
THEIR FAMILIES AND THEIR
THESE ARE MEDICAL DECISIONS.
DOCTORS.
NOT BY POLITICIANS OR BUSY
THESE ARE MEDICAL DECISIONS.
BODIES.
NOT BY POLITICIANS OR BUSY
I RESPECT CHARMAINE'S
BODIES.
DECISION.
I RESPECT CHARMAINE'S
I JUST DON'T THINK, LIKE
DECISION.
MOST AMERICANS, THAT SHE
I JUST DON'T THINK, LIKE
SHOULD BE THE ONE TO MAKE
MOST AMERICANS, THAT SHE
THE LAWSMENT THESE ARE
SHOULD BE THE ONE TO MAKE
MEDICAL PROCEDURES.
THE LAWSMENT THESE ARE
THAT'S DECIDED BY FAMILIES
MEDICAL PROCEDURES.
AND THEIR DOCTORS.
THAT'S DECIDED BY FAMILIES
>> CAN I JUST REONDSP TO
AND THEIR DOCTORS.
THIS BECAUSE I THINK THIS IS
>> CAN I JUST REONDSP TO
A REALLY IMPORTANT POINT.
THIS BECAUSE I THINK THIS IS
SHE IS BEING DISINGENUOUS BY
A REALLY IMPORTANT POINT.
DESCRIBING HER POSITION.
SHE IS BEING DISINGENUOUS BY
BECAUSE YOU MIGHT GET
DESCRIBING HER POSITION.
NOTICED FOR THE RECORD THAT
BECAUSE YOU MIGHT GET
YOU JUST HAVE COME OUT AND
NOTICED FOR THE RECORD THAT
SAID THAT SHE SUPPORTS
YOU JUST HAVE COME OUT AND
CLINIC REGULATION THAT ARE
SAID THAT SHE SUPPORTS
IS BAD ON WHAT WE EXPECT
CLINIC REGULATION THAT ARE
FROM OTHER SURGICAL CENTERS.
IS BAD ON WHAT WE EXPECT
THAT'S EXACTLY THE KIND OF
FROM OTHER SURGICAL CENTERS.
LEGISLATION THAT JUST PASSED
THAT'S EXACTLY THE KIND OF
IN ALABAMA.
LEGISLATION THAT JUST PASSED
AND YET THERE WAS A
IN ALABAMA.
FIRESTORM IN VIRGINIA, FOR
AND YET THERE WAS A
EXAMPLE-- IN VIRGINIA.
FIRESTORM IN VIRGINIA, FOR
>> Brown: YOU ARE ALSO
EXAMPLE-- IN VIRGINIA.
CITING A 12 WEEK, YOU WERE
>> Brown: YOU ARE ALSO
COMPARING TO OTHER COUNTRIES,
CITING A 12 WEEK, YOU WERE
SOME OF THESE STATES DO GO
COMPARING TO OTHER COUNTRIES,
FURTHER THAN THAT.
SOME OF THESE STATES DO GO
>> MUCH FURTHER.
FURTHER THAN THAT.
>> SO ABORTION CLINICS THEN
>> MUCH FURTHER.
OUGHT TO BE REGULATED LIKE
>> SO ABORTION CLINICS THEN
OTHER SURGICAL CENTERS.
OUGHT TO BE REGULATED LIKE
AND THAT SO THEN WE AGREE.
OTHER SURGICAL CENTERS.
WE BELIEVE THAT WOMEN SHOULD,
AND THAT SO THEN WE AGREE.
THAT THE FACILITIES THAT
WE BELIEVE THAT WOMEN SHOULD,
SUPPORT THESE PROCEDURES
THAT THE FACILITIES THAT
SHOULD BE INSURANCE THEY ARE
SUPPORT THESE PROCEDURES
CLEAN, SAFE.
SHOULD BE INSURANCE THEY ARE
WHAT WE HAD IN PHILADELPHIA
CLEAN, SAFE.
WAS NOT A PROBLEM OF
WHAT WE HAD IN PHILADELPHIA
REGULATION T WAS A PROBLEM
WAS NOT A PROBLEM OF
OF ENFORCEMENT.
REGULATION T WAS A PROBLEM
EVEN THE PENNSYLVANIA
OF ENFORCEMENT.
GOVERNOR HAS SAID IT WAS A
EVEN THE PENNSYLVANIA
PROBLEM OF ENFORCEMENT.
GOVERNOR HAS SAID IT WAS A
BUT WHAT WE ARE SEEING
PROBLEM OF ENFORCEMENT.
CHARMAINE'S GROUP PUSH FOR
BUT WHAT WE ARE SEEING
ARE ARBITRARY RESTRICTIONS,
CHARMAINE'S GROUP PUSH FOR
THE WIDTH OF THE HALLWAY.
ARE ARBITRARY RESTRICTIONS,
THE WIDTH OF THE HALLWAY HAS
THE WIDTH OF THE HALLWAY.
NO BEARING ON THE MEDICAL
THE WIDTH OF THE HALLWAY HAS
CARE THAT A WOMAN CAN GET.
NO BEARING ON THE MEDICAL
THE NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES,
CARE THAT A WOMAN CAN GET.
AS THEY ARE PUSHING FOR-- .
THE NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES,
>> Brown: YOU EXPECT THAT
AS THEY ARE PUSHING FOR-- .
THIS IS GOING TO END UP BACK
>> Brown: YOU EXPECT THAT
IN THE COURTS?
THIS IS GOING TO END UP BACK
>> ABSOLUTELY.
IN THE COURTS?
AND WE ARE EXCITED ABOUT WE
>> ABSOLUTELY.
ARE SEEING IN THE COURTS.
AND WE ARE EXCITED ABOUT WE
FOR EXAMPLE WE'RE INVOLVED
ARE SEEING IN THE COURTS.
IN A CASE IN OKLAHOMA RIGHT
FOR EXAMPLE WE'RE INVOLVED
NOW WHERE THE, THERE
IN A CASE IN OKLAHOMA RIGHT
IS-- WITH LEGISLATION THAT
NOW WHERE THE, THERE
REQUIRED THE ABORTION
IS-- WITH LEGISLATION THAT
INDUSTRY TO DEFENSE CHEMICAL
REQUIRED THE ABORTION
ABORTION IN THE MANNER THAT
INDUSTRY TO DEFENSE CHEMICAL
IT WAS APPROVED BY THE FDA.
ABORTION IN THE MANNER THAT
AND YET THE ABORTION
IT WAS APPROVED BY THE FDA.
INDUSTRY, BIG ABORTION WITH
AND YET THE ABORTION
WHOM ILYCE IS APPLIED
INDUSTRY, BIG ABORTION WITH
OPPOSED EVEN SOMETHING AS
WHOM ILYCE IS APPLIED
COMMON SENSIBLE AS THAT.
OPPOSED EVEN SOMETHING AS
>> WE ARE ALREADY SEEING A
COMMON SENSIBLE AS THAT.
NUMBER OF COURT CASES AND
>> WE ARE ALREADY SEEING A
INCLUDING ONES THAT
NUMBER OF COURT CASES AND
AMERICANS UNITED FOR LIFE, I
INCLUDING ONES THAT
THINK, SUPPORT THAT GO FAR
AMERICANS UNITED FOR LIFE, I
BEYOND ROE, FAR BEYOND
THINK, SUPPORT THAT GO FAR
WOMEN'S ABILITY TO DECIDE
BEYOND ROE, FAR BEYOND
ABOUT ABORTION WITH THEIR
WOMEN'S ABILITY TO DECIDE
DOCTORS.
ABOUT ABORTION WITH THEIR
THEY ARE SUPPORTING
DOCTORS.
ROLLBACKS OF CONTRACEPTION.
THEY ARE SUPPORTING
THEY ACTUALLY HAVE MODEL
ROLLBACKS OF CONTRACEPTION.
LEGISLATION ON THEIR WEB
THEY ACTUALLY HAVE MODEL
SITE THAT WOULD LIMIT IVF AS
LEGISLATION ON THEIR WEB
WE'VE SEEN IN THE PERSONMENT
SITE THAT WOULD LIMIT IVF AS
AMENDMENT.
WE'VE SEEN IN THE PERSONMENT
THIS IS A RADICAL AGENDA AND
AMENDMENT.
THE ANTI-I THINKS OF COMMON
THIS IS A RADICAL AGENDA AND
SENSE.
THE ANTI-I THINKS OF COMMON
AMERICANS BELIEVE WOMEN AND
SENSE.
THEIR DOCTORS CAN MAKE THESE
AMERICANS BELIEVE WOMEN AND
DECISIONS, NOT MEDDLING
THEIR DOCTORS CAN MAKE THESE
POLITICIANS.
DECISIONS, NOT MEDDLING
>> THAT IS A
POLITICIANS.
MISREPRESENTATION OF OUR
>> THAT IS A
OPINION.
MISREPRESENTATION OF OUR
WE ARE WORKING TO MAKE SURE
OPINION.
THAT THERE ARE COMMON SENSE
WE ARE WORKING TO MAKE SURE
REGULATIONS THAT PROTECT
THAT THERE ARE COMMON SENSE
WOMEN FROM AN INDUSTRY THAT
REGULATIONS THAT PROTECT
PREYS ON THEIR HEALTH.
WOMEN FROM AN INDUSTRY THAT
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT, TO BE
PREYS ON THEIR HEALTH.
CONTINUED, I PROMISE.
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT, TO BE
>> THANK YOU, JEFF.
CONTINUED, I PROMISE.
>> .
>> THANK YOU, JEFF.
>> Brown: THANK YOU BOTH
>> .
VERY MUCH.
>> Brown: THANK YOU BOTH
>> THANK YOU. ON-LINE,
VERY MUCH.
READ AN OPINION PIECE FROM
BOTH CHARMAINE YOEST YOEST
AND ILYCE HOUGH THAT IS ON
OUR RUNDOWN.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
PRESIDENT OBAMA USED A WHITE
HOUSE NEWS CONFERENCE TO PRESS
CONGRESS FOR ACTION ON BUDGET
CUTS, IMMIGRATION AND CLOSING
THE PRISON AT GUANTANAMO.
THE PRESIDENT ALSO SAID IT'S
STILL UNCLEAR WHO WAS
RESPONSIBLE FOR CHEMICAL WEAPONS
BEING USED IN SYRIA.
BUT HE INDICATED HE'S
CONSIDERING MILITARY OPTIONS IN
RESPONSE.
AND THREE NATO TROOPS WERE
KILLED IN A BOMBING IN
AFGHANISTAN.
>> Ifill: ONLINE, WE HAVE A
LITTLE UNCONVENTIONAL ADVICE FOR
YOU ON HOW TO GET AND KEEP THE
RIGHT JOB.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS MORE.
>> Sreenivasan: HEADHUNTER NICK
CORCODILOS ANSWERED YOUR JOB
SEARCH QUESTIONS IN A HOUR-LONG
LIVE CHAT TODAY.
READ HIS SUGGESTIONS ON HOW TO
GET MORE OUT OF NETWORKING AND
"MOVING UP" IN YOUR OWN COMPANY.
THAT'S ON OUR MAKING SENSE PAGE.
IT'S NOT A BIRD OR A PLANE; IT'S
SPACE DEBRIS.
ON LUNCH IN THE LAB, A LOOK AT
HOW SPACE TRASH CAN MENACE
SATELLITES, SPACECRAFT, AND EVEN
EARTHLINGS.
ON ART BEAT, COMEDIANS HIT THE
SOCIAL MEDIA STAGE FOR A WEEK OF
ONE-LINERS AND LIVE-TWEETING IN
THE FIRST EVER COMEDYFEST.
AND TONIGHT ON "FRONTLINE,"
AMERICAS RESPONSE TO TERRORISM,
FROM 9/11 TO THE BOSTON
BOMBINGS.
WATCH "TOP SECRET AMERICA" ON
YOUR LOCAL PBS STATION.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
JUDY?
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON WEDNESDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT THE
WOMEN BEHIND THE C.I.A.'S HUNT
FOR OSAMA BIN LADEN.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
THANK YOU, AND GOOD NIGHT.